{'item 1. ': "Business Company Background Apple Computer, Inc. (\x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows. The Company\x92 products and services include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the iPod digital music player, the Xserve server and Xserve RAID storage products, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, the iTunes Music Store, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, and variety other service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value added resellers. The Company also sells variety third-party products that are compatible with the Company\x92 Macintosh and iPod product lines, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital camcorders and still cameras, personal digital assistants, iPod accessories, and various other computing products and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company\x92 fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best personal computing and music experience students, educators, creative professionals, businesses, government agencies, and consumers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, services, and Internet offerings. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware, and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical facilitate innovation new and improved products and technologies. Besides updates its existing line personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions, the Company continues capitalize the convergence digital consumer electronics and the computer creating innovations like the iPod and iTunes Music Store. The Company\x92 strategy also includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more its targeted customers and provide them high-quality sales and after-sales support experience. Digital Hub The Company believes personal computing era which the personal computer functions for both professionals and consumers the digital hub for advanced new digital devices such the Company\x92 SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' iPod digital music players, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, digital camcorders and still cameras, and DVD players, televisions, and other consumer electronic devices. The attributes the personal computer include high quality user interface, relatively inexpensive data storage, and the ability run complex applications and easily connect the Internet. Apple the only company the personal computer industry that controls the design and development the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated applications. Additionally, the Company\x92 products provide innovative industrial design, intuitive ease- -use, and built- networking, graphics and multimedia capabilities. Thus, the Company uniquely positioned offer integrated digital hub products and solutions. The Company develops products and technologies that adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability with peripherals and devices from other companies. The Company has played role the development, enhancement, promotion, and use numerous these industry standards. Expanded Distribution The Company believes that high quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company\x92 products and services critical attracting and retaining customers. The Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its retail and online stores the . and internationally. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales, including the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which consists the deployment Apple employees and contractors selected third-party reseller locations. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers efficient way demonstrate the advantages its Macintosh computer and other products over those its competitors. The Company has significantly increased the points distribution for the iPod product family order make its products available locations where its customers shop. From inception the retail initiative through , the Company had opened retail stores the . and international stores Canada, Japan, and the . The Company opened additional stores October . The Company has typically located its stores high traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. One the goals the retail initiative bring new customers the Company and expand its installed base through sales computer users who currently not own Macintosh computer and first time personal computer buyers. operating its own stores and building them desirable high traffic locations, the Company able better control the customer retail experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing personal computing products. that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes order accommodate market demands. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice and certain hardware support services. The stores offer wide selection third-party hardware, software, and various other computing products and supplies selected complement the Company\x92 own products. Additionally, the stores provide forum which the Company able present computing solutions users areas such digital photography, digital video, music, children\x92 software, and home and small business computing. Education For more than years, the Company has focused the use technology education and has been committed delivering tools help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' student thought and ideas. The Company creates solutions that enable new modes curriculum delivery, better ways conducting research, and opportunities for professional development faculty, students, and staff. The Company has designed range products and services help schools maximize their investments technology. This manifested many the Company\x92 products and services that are designed meet the needs education customers. These products and services include the eMac\x99, iMac\x99, and the iBook®, video creation and editing solutions, wireless networking, student information systems, high-quality curriculum and professional development solutions, and one- -one ( : ) learning solutions (primarily - ). : learning solutions typically consist iBook portable computers for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server . Creative Professionals Creative professionals constitute one the Company\x92 most important markets for both hardware and software products. This market also important many third-party developers who provide Macintosh-compatible hardware and software solutions. Creative customers utilize the Company\x92 products for variety creative activities including digital video and film production and editing; digital video and film special effects, compositing, and titling; digital still photography and workflow management; graphic design, publishing, and print production; music creation and production; audio production and sound design; and web design, development, and administration. The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions, including servers, desktops, and portable Macintosh systems, incorporate the power, expandability, and features desired creative professionals. The Company\x92 operating system, Mac , incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and features developer tools optimize system and application performance when running powerful creative solutions provided the Company third-party developers. The Company also offers various software solutions meet the needs its creative customers. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment currently operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\x92 subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and notebook computers, server and storage products, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party hardware products. The Company\x92 entire line Macintosh® systems, excluding servers and storage systems, features the Company\x92 Mac ® Version Tiger\x99 and iLife® suite software for digital photography, music, movies, and music creation. Macintosh® Computers June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its Macintosh computers. The Company plans begin shipping certain models with Intel microprocessors June SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' and complete the transition all its Macintosh computers Intel microprocessors the end calendar year . The Company also announced its new translation technology, Rosetta\x99, which will allow most PowerPC-based Macintosh applications run new Intel-based Macintosh computers. There are potential risks and uncertainties associated with this transition, which are further discussed Part , Item this - under the heading \x93Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition.\x94 Power Mac® The Power Mac line desktop personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion, and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. Powered the PowerPC processor, the Power Mac utilizes -bit processing technology for memory expansion 16GB and advanced -bit computation while also running existing -bit applications natively. October , the Company updated the Power Mac product line, which now comes three processor configurations\x97dual 0GHz, dual 3GHz, and quad 5GHz that features two 5GHz dual processors. All Power Mac desktops feature SuperDrive\x99 and NVIDIA GeForce graphics card. addition, all Power Mac desktops deliver connectivity and high-performance input output ( ), including dual Gigabit Ethernet, FireWire® and FireWire ports, USB ports, optical digital , PCI Express expansion, and optional AirPort® Extreme wireless networking and Bluetooth connectivity. The new Power Mac product line also includes Mighty Mouse, the Company\x92 next generation mouse, featuring four programmable buttons and Scroll Ball that lets users scroll vertically, horizontally, and diagonally. Xserve® and Xserve RAID Storage System Xserve rack-mount server product designed for simple setup and remote management intensive applications such digital video, high-resolution digital imagery, and large databases. January , the Company upgraded Xserve , which now available with either single 0GHz dual 3GHz PowerPC processor. Xserve includes system controller with 16GB PC3200 error correcting code memory; three hot-plug Serial ATA drive modules that deliver 5TB storage; and dual -board Gigabit Ethernet for high-performance networking. The Company\x92 Xserve RAID storage system was updated September deliver terabytes storage capacity and also expanded support for heterogeneous environments. The dual independent RAID controllers with 512MB cache per controller offer sustained throughput over Mbps\x97high enough support media production environments using protected RAID level . iMac® The iMac line desktop computers targeted consumer and education markets. October , the Company introduced the new iMac , featuring the PowerPC processor, built- iSight\x99 video camera, and design that integrates the entire computer into either -inch -inch widescreen LCD flat-panel display. The -inch and -inch models come with 9GHz and 1GHz PowerPC Processors, respectively. The iMac offers 512MB 533MHz DDR2 memory expandable 5GB and rpm Serial ATA drives expandable 500GB. The iMac comes standard with ATI Radeon X600 Pro graphics, video memory, SuperDrive, built- Airport Extreme wireless networking, internal Bluetooth module, built- stereo speakers and microphone, and Mighty Mouse. The iMac also offers built- Ethernet ( 1000BASE- ), three USB and two FireWire ports. The iMac also features Front Row media experience with the Apple Remote, which allows users play music and view photos and videos via remote control. eMac\x99 The eMac, desktop personal computer targeted the Company\x92 education customers, features PowerPC processor, high resolution -inch flat cathode ray tube display, and preserves the all- -one SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' compact design the original iMac. The eMac offers PowerPC processors running 42GHz, 333MHz DDR memory, optional SuperDrive, built- modem and Ethernet ( 100BASE- ), ATI Radeon graphics, AirPort Extreme-ready, and USB and ports for connectivity peripherals. Mac® mini January , the Company introduced Mac mini, desktop personal computer with starting price $ and weighing little pounds. July , the Company updated its Mac mini lineup, expanding three models and increasing memory 512MB. The first model includes 25GHz PowerPC processor, 40GB hard drive, and Combo drive. The second model includes 42GHz PowerPC processor, 80GB hard drive, and Combo drive. The third model includes 42GHz PowerPC processor, 80GB hard drive, and SuperDrive. All models include ATI Radeon graphics with 32MB dedicated DDR memory, built- Ethernet ( BASE- ), one FireWire and two USB ports, and DVI interface that also supports VGA consumers can connect LCD CRT displays. The 42GHz models the Mac mini also include built- AirPort Extreme for Mbps 11g wireless networking along with internal Bluetooth module. PowerBook® The PowerBook family portable computers designed meet the mobile computing needs professionals and advanced consumer users. October , the Company updated its PowerBook notebooks with extended battery life well higher resolution displays, including pixels the -inch model and pixels the -inch model. Both the -inch and -inch PowerBook offer 67GHz PowerPC processor and the ATI Mobility Radeon graphics processor. The -inch PowerBook features 5GHz PowerPC processor, and the NVIDIA GeForce Go5200 graphics processor. Every PowerBook notebook comes with SuperDrive, 512MB DDR memory, built- AirPort Extreme wireless networking, internal Bluetooth module for wireless connectivity, well full complement ports including FireWire , USB , and built- 56K modem and Ethernet ( 100BASE- ), for connectivity wide range peripherals. The -inch and -inch PowerBook models also include built- Gigabit Ethernet and FireWire . iBook® The iBook designed meet the portable computing needs education and consumer users. July , the Company upgraded its iBook® line include faster PowerPC processors running 42GHz, built- AirPort Extreme Mpbs 11g wireless networking and available slot-load SuperDrive. The -inch model features 33GHz PowerPC processor and slot-load Combo drive, while the -inch model includes 42GHz processor and SuperDrive. All iBook models offer full complement ports including FireWire , USB , built- 56K modem and Ethernet ( 100BASE- ), well built- internal wireless Bluetooth module, for connectivity wide range peripherals. Music Products and Services The Company offers its iPod® line digital music players and related accessories Macintosh and Windows users. The Company also provides online service distribute third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows through its iTunes Music Store®. iPod ® The iPod the Company\x92 portable digital music player, featuring the Company\x92 patent pending Click Wheel, which combines touch-sensitive wheel with five push buttons for one-handed navigation. October , the Company introduced the new iPod containing -inch color screen that can display album artwork and photos and play video including music videos, video podcasts, home movies, short films, and television shows. The iPod lineup includes 30GB model holding , songs, , photos, SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' hours video, and 60GB model holding , songs, , photos, hours video. The iPod features the Company\x92 patent pending Auto-Sync technology that automatically downloads digital music, podcasts, photos, audio books, home movies, music videos, short films, and television shows onto the iPod and keeps - -date whenever plugged into Macintosh Windows computer using USB. The iPod also features Shuffle Songs, which randomly plays songs selected playlist across the entire library. All iPods work with the Company\x92 iTunes® digital music management software either Macintosh Windows computer. The iPod\x92 functionality extends beyond playing music, listening audio books, and watching music videos, short films, home movies, and television shows. Other key capabilities include data storage, calendar and contact information utility, and selection games. With the addition third-party iPod peripherals, the capabilities certain iPods can enhanced include photo downloading directly from certain digital cameras. The Company has also entered into alliances with many automobile manufacturers offer seamless integration the iPod certain automobiles. Along with the iPod, the Company has developed the iTunes software and the iTunes Music Store, service that consumers may use purchase third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows over the Internet. iPod® nano September , the Company introduced iPod nano, flash-memory based digital music player. The iPod nano available either 2GB model holding songs , photos, 4GB model holding , songs , photos. The iPod nano, which weighs little ounces and inches thin, features color screen and the Company\x92 patent pending Click Wheel. iPod® shuffle January , the Company introduced iPod shuffle, flash-memory based digital music player, which based iPod\x92 shuffle feature that randomly selects songs from the user\x92 music library playlists. iPod shuffle works with iTunes and its patent-pending AutoFill feature that automatically selects songs fill iPod shuffle from user\x92 music library their computer. iPod shuffle can also used portable USB flash drive with 1GB storage space. available 512MB model holding songs and 1GB model holding songs. iTunes Music Store® The Company\x92 iTunes Music Store, available for both Windows-based and Macintosh computers, service that allows customers find, purchase, and download third-party digital music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows. The iTunes Music Store also offers Podcast Directory that allows users search for and download audio programs their computer and automatically receive new episodes over the Internet. Users can search the contents the store catalog locate works title, artist, album, browse the entire contents the store genre and artist. Users can also listen free -second preview content available through the store. The iTunes Music Store was originally introduced the . April and now serves customers countries. The iTunes Music Store fully integrated directly into the iTunes software allowing customers preview, purchase, download, organize, share, and transfer digital content iPod using single software application. Further discussion the iTunes software may found below under the heading \x93Software Products and Computer Technologies.\x94 The iTunes Music Store offers customers broad range personal rights the third-party content they have purchased. Content purchased through the store may also used certain applications such iPhoto®, iMovie®, and iDVD®. Additional features the iTunes Music Store include gift certificates that can sent via -mail; prepaid gift cards; \x93allowance\x94 feature that enables users automatically deposit funds into iTunes Music Store account every month; online gift options that let customers give specific songs, albums, music videos, their own playlists anyone with email address; parental controls; and album reviews. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Peripheral Products The Company sells various Apple-branded computer hardware peripherals, including iSight\x99 digital video cameras and range high quality flat panel TFT active-matrix digital color displays. The Company also sells variety third-party Macintosh compatible hardware products directly end users through both its retail and online stores, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, personal digital assistants, and various other computing products and supplies. iSight\x99 The Company\x92 iSight digital video camera enables video conferencing over broadband connections. iSight small, portable aluminum alloy camera with all audio, video, and power provided single FireWire cable. iSight designed center-mounted the top computer screen and uses its integrated tilt and rotate mechanism easily position the camera for natural, face- -face video conferencing. iSight features auto focusing auto exposure lens that captures high-quality pictures and full-motion video. With its -board processor, iSight automatically adjusts color, white balance, sharpness and contrast provide high-quality images with accurate color reproduction most lighting conditions. iSight also includes dual-element microphone that suppresses ambient noise for clear digital audio. Displays The Company offers family widescreen flat panel displays featuring the -inch Apple Cinema Display\x99, widescreen active-matrix LCD with - - pixel resolution, -inch widescreen Apple Cinema Display with - - pixel resolution and -inch widescreen Apple Cinema Display® with - - pixel resolution. The displays feature dual FireWire and dual USB ports built into the display and use the industry standard DVI interface for pure digital connection with the Company\x92 latest Power Mac and PowerBook systems. The Cinema Displays feature aluminum design with very thin bezel, suspended aluminum stand that allows viewing angle adjustment. Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for education, creative, consumer and business customers, including Mac , the Company\x92 proprietary operating system software for the Macintosh; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education and business oriented application software. Operating System Software April , the Company began shipping Mac Tiger, the Company\x92 fifth major version Mac . Tiger incorporates more than new features and innovations including Spotlight\x99, desktop search technology that lets users find items stored their Macintosh computers, including documents, emails, contacts and images; and Dashboard, new way instantly access information such weather forecasts and stock quotes, using new class mini-applications called widgets. The server version the Mac operating system, Mac Server version , also began shipping April . Server Software and Server Solutions Apple Remote Desktop\x99 the second generation the Company\x92 asset management, software distribution, and help desk support software. Apple Remote Desktop includes more than features for centrally managing Mac systems. Apple Remote Desktop can perform wide range desktop management tasks such installing operating system and application software, running hardware and software inventory reports, and executing commands one more remote Mac systems the network. Remote software installation tools allow professionals install single multiple software packages immediately specific dates and times. Comprehensive hardware and software reports based more than system information attributes allow administrators keep track their Mac SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' systems. addition, built- real-time screen sharing enables help desk professionals provide online assistance observing and controlling the desktops any remote Macintosh Virtual Network Computing-enabled computer, including Windows and Linux systems. Xsan®, the Company\x92 enterprise-class Storage Area Network (SAN) file system, began shipping January . Xsan -bit cluster file system for Mac that enables organizations consolidate storage resources and provide multiple computers with concurrent file-level read write access shared volumes over Fibre Channel. Advanced features such metadata controller failover and Fibre Channel multipathing ensure high availability; file-level locking allows multiple systems read and write concurrently the same volume which ideal for complex workflows; bandwidth reservation provides for effective ingestion bandwidth-intensive data streams, such high resolution video; and flexible volume management results more efficient use storage resources. Since Xsan interoperable with ADIC\x92 StorNext File System, can used heterogeneous environments that include Windows, UNIX, and Linux server operating system platforms. Professional Application Software April , the Company announced Final Cut Studio\x99, High Definition ( ) video production suite that features Final Cut Pro® , the Company\x92 editing software for Digital Video ( ), Standard Definition ( ), , and film. Final Cut Studio also includes tools that complement Final Cut Pro such Soundtrack® Pro, new application that gives audio and video professionals way create, control and repair audio; Motion , application that allows real-time motion graphics design; and DVD Studio Pro® , DVD authoring software that burns DVDs, including high definition DVDs the latest DVD specification. These components Final Cut Studio are also sold separately. Final Cut Pro® , the latest version the Company\x92 video editing software, which began shipping April , includes editing tools that work with most formats, from and native High Definition Video (HDV) fully uncompressed . Final Cut Pro acquires HDV media via FireWire and keeps the original format, transferring into the system without any generation loss. With real-time multi-stream effects architecture, multicam editing tools, and advanced color correction, Final Cut Pro enables users view and cut from multiple sources real time, group sources together into multi-clips, then add subtract cameras any time. Final Cut Pro allows users use external audio control surfaces mix and record multiple fader automations simultaneously. Soundtrack® Pro new audio editing and sound design application that gives audio and video professionals way create, control, and repair audio. Soundtrack Pro features waveform editor with flexible Action Layers that allow users -order, bypass, change any edit, effect, process. Find-and-Fix features identify and repair common audio problems such background noise, pops, clicks, and hum. integrated multitrack mixer allows editors apply common effects multiple tracks and group common tracks using busses. Soundtrack Pro also features over professional plug-ins for creating sounds, over , loops, integrated mixer, and integration with Final Cut Studio. Motion real-time motion graphics software that enables Final Cut Pro editors add motion graphics their projects. Motion features interactive animation text and graphics for DVD motion menus, video film real time, and quick output rendering built- GPU acceleration -bit, -bit, -bit float film quality. With Motion \x92 new design tool, Replicator, users can automatically generate and animate multiple copies graphic, shape, movie. DVD Studio Pro® the latest version the Company\x92 professional DVD authoring application. With DVD Studio Pro and its integrated, scalable encoding, users can author DVDs. DVD Studio Pro allows users preview content real time with second Digital Cinema Desktop and audition surround sound using PDIF (digital audio) out external DTS Dolby Digital ( - ) decoder. Its interactive graphical view also enables users edit display menus, tracks, slideshows, scripts, SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' and stories DVD project storyboard layout. DVD Studio Pro includes Compressor , full-featured video and audio compression application. Compressor gives users control over encoding, including the ability encode several clips one batch operation wide variety formats and perform advanced format conversions the same time. April , the Company announced Shake® , upgrade the Company\x92 compositing software, which began shipping June . Used create visual effects for film and television, Shake features multi-plane compositing, optical flow image processing and integration with Final Cut Pro . Users can composite live action and CGI layers with added realism using OpenGL accelerated multi-plane compositing node. Other features include advanced optical flow technology that uses pixel- -pixel image analysis create smooth retiming and automatic stabilization. Shake also integrates Truelight monitor calibration maintain color consistency between the computer screen and the final look film. Logic® Pro used musicians around the world and professionals music production and film scoring. combines digital music composition, notation, and audio production facilities one comprehensive product and includes software instruments such Sculpture, component-modeling based synthesizer; UltraBeat\x99, drum synthesizer with built- step sequencer; and digital signal processing (DSP) plug-ins including Guitar Amp Pro, full-featured guitar amplifier simulator. Along with workflow enhancements, mastering plug-ins, and support for Apple Loops, Logic Pro adds distributed audio processing, technology that allows professionals utilize multiple Macintosh systems expand available DSP power via Ethernet network. October , the Company announced Aperture\x99, began shipping November . Aperture application designed provide professional photographers with post-production tools manage, edit, and publish digital pictures. Features include compare and select tools, nondestructive image processing, color managed printing, and custom web and book publishing. Compare and select tools Aperture allow photographers sift through photo projects and identify their final selections. RAW images are maintained natively throughout Aperture without any intermediate conversion process, and can retouched using suite adjustment tools designed especially for photographers. Print options include customizable contact sheets, high-quality local printing, and color-managed online prints. Aperture also provides layout environment where photographers can create and order custom books and publish web galleries. Consumer, Education and Business Oriented Application Software iLife® \x91 January , the Company introduced iLife \x91 , upgrade its digital lifestyle suite, which features iPhoto®, iMovie®, iDVD®, GarageBand\x99, and iTunes®. iPhoto® the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital photo software application. iPhoto includes advanced editing tools, adds support for uncompressed RAW photos, and includes slideshow builder allowing users apply effects, transitions and durations each individual slide. iPhoto allows users create and order hardcover and softcover photo books using variety book layouts with double-sided printing, directly within the application. iMovie® , consumer-oriented digital video editing software application, enables users import HDV from HDV camcorders and edit digital videos their Macintosh computers. iMovie also includes Magic iMovie, which automatically imports video into separate clips and adds titles, transitions and music. iMovie imports video from HDV and standard camcorders, and from video cameras that generate MPEG- video. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144013445_D11492_687960\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' iDVD® consumer-oriented software application that enables users turn iMovie files, QuickTime® files, and digital pictures into DVDs that can played most consumer DVD players. iDVD includes new themes featuring moving drop zones that can display video clips photos motion across DVD menus. iDVD also features OneStep DVD, which automatically creates DVD from footage directly from user\x92 camcorder. With compatible SuperDrive\x99, iDVD supports all recordable single-layer and double-layer DVD format standards. GarageBand\x99 consumer-oriented music creation software application. GarageBand adds -track recording that users can record multiple digital audio tracks once. GarageBand can improve out- -tune notes and timing both vocal and real-instrument recordings. GarageBand displays and edits musical notation real time for software instrument tracks for people who know how read and write music want learn. With GarageBand Jam Packs, including the latest, Jam Pack : Symphony Orchestra, GarageBand users can create music their favorite genres. iLife \x91 also includes iTunes, the Company\x92 digital music jukebox software application that allows users purchase variety digital content available through the Company\x92 iTunes Music Store. iTunes organizes content using searching, browsing, and playlists, and also includes features such iMix playlist sharing and provides integration with the complete family iPods. October , the Company introduced iTunes , the latest version its iTunes software. iTunes allows users purchase and download music videos, short films, and television shows from the iTunes Music Store, watch them their computers, and Auto-Sync them onto their iPod. September , the Company, Motorola Inc., and Cingular Wireless LLC announced the availability mobile phone with iTunes software (Motorola ROKR), enabling users transfer songs from the iTunes library their Macintosh Windows-based computers their Motorola ROKR mobile phones. iWork\x99 \x91 January , the Company introduced iWork \x91 , productivity software designed take advantage both Mac and iLife \x91 help users create, present, and publish documents and presentations. iWork \x91 introduced Pages\x99, word processor, and also features Keynote\x99 , updated version the Company\x92 presentation software. Pages\x99 gives users the tools create letters, newsletters, reports, brochures and resumes with advanced typography, multiple columns, footnotes, tables content and styles. With features like dynamic text wrapping and alignment guides, Pages lets users create free-form arrangements text, graphics, photos, tables, and charts. integrated iLife media browser lets users drag and drop photos from the iPhoto library directly into documents. Keynote\x99 the Company\x92 presentation software that gives users the ability create presentations, portfolios, interactive slideshows, and storyboards. Keynote contains slide animations synchronize the movement multiple objects and cinematic real-time animated text. The iLife media browser within Keynote allows users insert photos, movies, and music directly into presentations, and with image masking, users can frame the exact part the photo they want display. Keynote can also work with second monitor display upcoming slides, notes, and timer. January , the Company announced Final Cut® Express , update Final Cut Express, which began shipping February . Final Cut Express enables users capture, edit, and output HDV over single FireWire cable, and supports Digital Cinema Desktop with multiple displays. Final Cut Express features sound editing tools including audio tracks, real-time volume and audio filter adjustment, voice-over tool, and Soundtrack music creation software that allows users compose musical scores for their videos. Final Cut Express includes LiveType\x99, which can add -quality SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' animated text and motion graphics videos. addition, iMovie projects can imported directly into Final Cut Express with all their effects, transitions, and audio levels intact. Logic® Express streamlined version Logic Pro that provides basic set professional tools compose and produce music for students, educators, and advanced hobbyists. Its high-resolution audio -bit 96kHz, the adaptive self-configuring track mixer, and -bit floating-point math provide professional sound quality. Logic Express comes with support for projects from GarageBand offering users smooth migration path high-end audio production. FileMaker, Inc., wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes desktop-based database management application software for either Macintosh Windows-based computer. The FileMaker ® Pro database software and related products offer relational databases and desktop- -web publishing capabilities. FileMaker Pro , the newest version the desktop database introduced August , features new ways share and manage information various types. FileMaker Pro allows users convert graphic-rich reports their data into alternative file formats, which can emailed for sharing with non-FileMaker users. Internet Software and Services The Company focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\x92 products and services. The Company\x92 Internet solutions adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability. Safari \x99 Safari, the Company\x92 Mac compatible web browser, uses the advanced interface technologies underlying Mac and includes built- Google search; SnapBack\x99 instantly return search results; way name, organize and present bookmarks; tabbed browsing; and automatic \x93pop- \x94 blocking. QuickTime ® QuickTime, the Company\x92 multimedia software for Macintosh Windows-based computers, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet and playback high-quality audio and video computers. QuickTime features new video codec called , which delivers high video quality low data rates. QuickTime automatically determines user\x92 connection speed ensure they are getting the highest-quality content stream possible. QuickTime also delivers multi-channel audio and supports audio formats, including AIFF, WAV, MOV, MP4 (AAC only), CAF, and AAC ADTS. The Company offers several other QuickTime products. QuickTime Pro, suite software tools, allows creation and editing Internet-ready audio and video files. QuickTime Pro allows users create video, capture audio and video, create multi-channel audio, and export multiple files while playing back editing video. QuickTime Streaming Server facilitates the broadcasting streaming digital video. QuickTime Broadcaster allows users produce professional-quality live events for online delivery. .Mac\x99 The Company\x92 Mac offering suite Internet services that for annual fee provides Macintosh users with powerful set Internet tools Mac services include: HomePage, for personal web sites; iDisk, virtual hard drive accessible anywhere with Internet access;.Mac Sync, which keeps Safari bookmarks, iCal® calendars, Address Book information, Keychain® (passwords), and Mac Mail preferences - -date across multiple Macintosh computers and available via web browser when users are away from their Mac;..Mac Mail, -free email service; and Learning Center, featuring tutorials for certain software applications. The current version Mac includes Mac Groups, service that helps members communicate, coordinate schedules, and stay sync with private groups friends colleagues; SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' updated version Mac Backup software that allows members archive the content their iLife Home folder; and four-fold increase combined iDisk and email storage 1GB for individuals and 2GB for families. Wireless Connectivity and Networking AirPort Extreme® AirPort Extreme the Company\x92 next generation - wireless networking technology. AirPort Extreme based the 11g standard, which supports speeds Mbps, and fully compatible with most - devices that use the 11b standard. AirPort Extreme Base Stations can serve Macintosh and Windows users simultaneously, provide wireless bridging extend the range beyond just one base station, and support USB printer sharing allow multiple users wirelessly share USB printers connected directly the base station. AirPort® Express AirPort® Express the first 11g mobile base station that can plugged directly into the wall for wireless Internet connections and USB printing. Airport Express also features analog and digital audio outputs that can connected stereo and AirTunes\x99 music networking software which works with iTunes, giving users way wirelessly stream iTunes music from their Macintosh Windows-based computer any room the house. AirPort Express features single piece design weighing ounces. Other Connectivity and Networking Solutions Mac includes capabilities for Bluetooth technology. Bluetooth industry standard for wirelessly connecting computers and peripherals that supports transmission data Mbps within range approximately feet. The Company\x92 Bluetooth technology for Mac lets customers wirelessly share files between Macintosh systems, synchronize and share contact information with Palm- based PDAs, and access the Internet through Bluetooth-enabled cell phones. Bluetooth USB adaptor can Bluetooth-enable any USB-based Macintosh computer running Mac version higher. Bonjour\x99, the Company\x92 zero configuration networking technology, based open Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Standard Protocols such , ARP, and DNS and built into Mac . This technology uses industry standard networking protocols and zero configuration technology including Ethernet -based wireless networks like the Company\x92 AirPort products. The source code for this technology also includes software support UNIX, Linux, and Windows-based systems and devices. The Company developed FireWire technology, also referred IEEE , which high-speed serial technology for connecting digital devices such digital camcorders and cameras desktop and portable computers. With its high data-transfer speed and \x93hot plug-and-play\x94 capability, FireWire has become established cross-platform industry standard for both consumers and professionals. FireWire currently integrated all Macintosh systems. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for the Company\x92 customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan fee-based service that typically includes three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. Markets and Distribution The Company\x92 customers are primarily the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' cataloguers. individual customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its retail and online stores the . and internationally. Over % the Company\x92 net sales were through its . education channel, including sales elementary and secondary schools, higher education institutions, and individual customers. Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The market for personal computers and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. This market continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software that have substantially increased the capabilities and use personal computers and have resulted the frequent introduction new products with competitive price, feature, and performance characteristics. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers has been particularly intense. The Company\x92 competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\x92 results operations and financial condition can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors the market for personal computers include price, relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result innovations from competing platforms. The Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing platforms. The Company\x92 services and products relating music and other creative content have already encouraged significant competition from other companies, many whom have greater financial, marketing, and manufacturing resources than those the Company. The Company faces increasing competition from other companies promoting their own digital music products and distribution services, subscription services, and free peer- -peer music services. The Company anticipates that competition will intensify hardware, software, and content providers work more collaboratively offer integrated products competing with the Company\x92 offerings. However, the Company believes currently maintains competitive advantage more effectively integrating entire solution, including the hardware (iPod), software (iTunes), and distribution third-party digital content (iTunes Music Store). Raw Materials Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94)) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability constraints and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company did experience such delays during and related PowerPC processors, which resulted the constrained availability certain products. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. June , the Company announced its intention transition its Macintosh computers using the PowerPC and microprocessors, which are currently single-sourced, Intel microprocessors the end calendar year . The announcement this transition may impact the continued availability acceptable terms certain components and services, including PowerPC and microprocessors. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\x92 business and financial position. this time, such vendors include Agere Systems, Inc., Ambit Microsystems Corporation, ASUSTeK Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Hon Hai Precision Industry ., Ltd., IBM Corporation, Intel Corporation, International Display Technology, Inventec Appliances Corporation, . Phillips ., Ltd., Matsushita, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, NVIDIA Corp., PortalPlayer, Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Samsung Electronics, Synaptics, Inc., and Toshiba Corporation. Research and Development Because the personal computer and consumer electronics industries are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\x92 ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products and technology the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, consumer electronic products, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and the Internet. The Company may expand the range its product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and acquisition third-party business and technology. The Company\x92 research and development expenditures totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, iPods, peripherals and software. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries for \x93Apple,\x94 the Apple logo, \x93Macintosh,\x94 \x93iPod,\x94 \x93iTunes,\x94 \x93iTunes Music Store,\x94 and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third-parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The . represents the Company\x92 largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\x92 net sales came from sales customers inside the . Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the People\x92 Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\x92 products and final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and iPods are performed third-party vendors China. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters compared other quarters its fiscal year due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year. This historical pattern should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most the Company\x92 hardware products all its major markets. Backlog the Company\x92 experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over-ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect the Company\x92 capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. the future, these laws could have material adverse effect the Company. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member states, Japan, and California. the future, these laws could have material adverse effect the Company. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and additional , temporary employees and contractors. Available Information The Company\x92 Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, are available its website http://www apple com investor when such reports are available the . Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\x92 Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC http://www sec gov. The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\x92 references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. Item . Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia Pacific region. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leased space includes approximately , square feet retail space, majority which the . Lease terms for retail space range from years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns , square-foot manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also houses customer support call center. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California that houses warehousing and distribution operations well customer support call center. addition, the Company owns approximately , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Item . Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 results operations. Advanced Audio Devices LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Advanced Audio Devices (AAD) filed this action March , the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patent , , entitled \x93Music Jukebox.\x94 The complaint sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer May , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties have reached settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. Apple Corps Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Apple Computer, Inc. . Apple Corps Ltd. Plaintiff Apple Corps filed this action July , the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, London alleging that the Company has breached agreement that resolved earlier trademark litigation between the parties regarding use certain Apple marks. Plaintiff seeks injunction, unspecified damages, and other relief. The Company filed motion October , , challenging jurisdiction the . The Court denied this motion April , . The Company filed appeal the Court\x92 decision but subsequently withdrew the appeal. November , Plaintiff served the Company with Amended Bill Particulars and December , the Company filed Defence. Plaintiff has indicated its intention file -Amended Bill Particulars. The Company\x92 Defence the -Amended Bill Particulars not yet due. Trial set for the week March , . October , , the Company filed lawsuit against Apple Corps the United States District Court for the Northern District California requesting declaratory judgment that the Company has not breached the agreement. Apple Corps challenged jurisdiction the California case but the Court denied that challenge March , . Apple Corps subsequently prevailed motion stay the California case during the pendency the . action. The Company has dismissed the California lawsuit without prejudice. Bader . Anderson; Bader . Apple Computer, Inc. . . Plaintiff filed this purported shareholder derivative action against the Company and each its current executive officers and members its Board Directors May , Santa Clara County Superior Court asserting claims for breach fiduciary duty, material misstatements and omissions, and violations California Businesses and Professions Code § (unfair competition). Plaintiff alleges that the Company\x92 March , proxy statement was false and misleading for failure disclose certain information relating the Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan which was approved shareholders the annual meeting held April , . Plaintiff, who ostensibly brings suit the Company\x92 behalf, has made demand the Board Directors and alleges that such demand excused. Plaintiff seeks injunctive and other relief for purported injury the Company. July , , Plaintiff filed amended complaint alleging that, addition the purported derivative claims, adoption the bonus plan and distribution the proxy statement describing that plan also inflicted injury her SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' directly individual shareholder. Defendants filed demurrer which scheduled heard December , . Baghdasarian, . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this action Los Angeles County Superior Court October , , behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers all Apple wireless products (router, modem, adaptor) sold any time. The complaint alleges that the Company misrepresented the transmission rates these products. The complaint alleges causes action for breach express warranty and for violations the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising). The complaint seeks damages and equitable remedies. The Company\x92 response the complaint not yet due. Branning . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court February , . The complaint alleges violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) regarding variety purportedly unfair and unlawful conduct including, but not limited , allegedly selling used computers new and failing honor warranties. Plantiffs also bring causes action for misappropriation trade secrets, breach contract, and violation the Song Beverly Act. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The Company received service the complaint March , , and March , the Company filed motion transfer the case Santa Clara County Superior Court. May , , the Court granted the motion and transferred the case Santa Clara County Superior Court. May , , Plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding two new named Plaintiffs and three new causes action including claim for treble damages under the Cartwright Act (California Business and Professions Code § seq.) and claim for false advertising. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint which the Court sustained its entirety November , . The Court granted Plaintiffs leave amend their complaint. Burrow . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action Orange County Superior Court February , alleging false advertising regarding the copy protection capabilities DVD Studio Pro. The Complaint alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising) and negligent misrepresentation. Plaintiff requested unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties have reached settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. Butzer, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this action August , , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division, behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers the Company\x92 PowerBook portable computers. The complaint alleges defects the memory the computers. The complaint alleges that this purported defect extends other series the Company\x92 portables and states that plaintiffs reserve the right amend the complaint include these other series. Plaintiffs assert claims for alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. The complaint seeks remedies including restitution and damages and injunctive relief. The Company filed answer October , denying the material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Cagney . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles County Superior Court, alleging improper collection sales tax transactions involving mail- rebates. The complaint alleges violations California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition) and seeks restitution and other relief. The Company filed answer February , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\x92 counsel, which the Court denied. The Company filed petition for writ mandate with respect this ruling and the Court Appeal issued order show cause why the writ should not issue. Plaintiff\x92 lead counsel subsequently withdrew. February , the Court Appeal ruled that the trial court abused its discretion failing grant the Company\x92 motion disqualify and ordered the trial court disqualify both Plaintiff\x92 law firms upon remand. The trial court issued the disqualification order May , . May , Plaintiff substituted new counsel. The Company has obtained opinion the tax issue from the State Board Equalization. Discovery stayed. Clark . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action February , Santa Clara County Superior Court alleging defects the Company\x92 \x93 - \x94 power adapters. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The parties reached tentative settlement this matter. The Court granted preliminary approval the settlement April , . November , , the Court continued the hearing final settlement approval until January , , when all claims will have been received and completely processed and relevant claim information has been reported the Court. Settlement this matter the terms preliminarily approved the Court will not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. Compression Labs, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., .; Apple . Compression Labs, Inc., . Plaintiff Compression Labs, Inc. filed this patent infringement action April , against the Company and twenty-seven other defendants the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , (the \x91 patent). Plaintiff alleges that the Company infringes the patent complying with the JPEG standard defined CCITT Recommendation entitled \x93Information Technology\x97Digital Compression and Coding Continuous Tone Still Images\x97Requirements and Guidelines.\x94 Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. July , , the Company and several other defendants the Texas action filed lawsuit the United States District Court Delaware against Compression Labs, Inc. and two other companies, requesting declaratory judgment noninfringement, invalidity, implied license, and unenforceability with respect the \x91 patent. Additional actions regarding this patent have been filed other jurisdictions. February , , the Panel Multi-District Litigation (MDL) granted petition filed certain defendants, seeking coordination and transfer all these cases one court for pre-trial proceedings. The MDL Panel has transferred all the cases the Northern District California. The defendants the Texas and Delaware actions had filed motions dismiss prior the transfer and both motions are still pending. Markman hearing set for February , . Contois Music Technology LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Contois Music Technology (\x93Contois\x94) filed this action June , the United States District Court for Vermont, alleging infringement the Company . Patent . , , , entitled \x93Computer Control System and User Interface for Media Playing Devices.\x94 The complaint, which was served October , , seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer November , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Craft . Apple Computer, Inc . (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Chin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Mateo County Superior Court); Hughes . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Westley . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Francisco County Superior Court); Keegan . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Alameda County Superior Court); Wagya . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Alameda County Superior Court); Yamin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Los Angeles County Superior Court); Kieta . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed July , , Alameda County Superior Court) Eight separate plaintiffs filed purported class action cases various California courts alleging misrepresentations the Company relative iPod battery life. The complaints include causes action for violation California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Action and claims for false advertising, fraudulent concealment, and breach warranty. The complaints seek unspecified damages and other relief. The cases were consolidated San Mateo County and Plaintiffs thereafter filed consolidated complaint. August , , the Company filed answer denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties reached tentative settlement and the Court granted preliminary approval the settlement May , . The trial court entered order granting final approval the settlement August , . appeal challenging the trial court\x92 approval the settlement was filed October , ; the appeal pending. Settlement this matter the terms approved the Court will not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. similar complaint relative iPod battery life, Mosley . Apple Computer, Inc. was filed Westchester County, New York June , alleging violations New York General Business Law Sections (unfair competition) and (false advertising). The Company removed the case Federal Court and Plaintiff filed motion for remand, which the Court has not yet decided. This case stayed and part the settlement, now appeal, referred above. similar complaint related the iPod battery life, Lenzi . Apple Canada, Inc. , was filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada, June , , seeking authorization institute class action behalf Generations , and iPod owners Quebec. class certification hearing has been scheduled for January , . Two similar complaints relative iPod battery life, Wolfe . Apple and Hirst . Apple , were filed Toronto, Ontario, Canada August , and September , , respectively. Both actions define the class national class consisting all persons Canada who have purchased who own iPod. motion for certification the class proceeding has been scheduled for the Spring . Davis . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court December , , alleging that the Company engaged unfair and deceptive business practices relating its AppleCare Extended Service and Warranty Plan. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation the California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition) and § (false advertising), breach the Song-Beverly Warranty Act, intentional misrepresentation and concealment. Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed demurrer and motion strike which were granted, part, and Plaintiff filed amended complaint. The Company filed answer April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Plaintiff subsequently amended its complaint. October , , the Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\x92 counsel his role counsel the purported class and the general public. The Court granted the motion but allowed Plaintiff retain substitute counsel. Plaintiff did engage new counsel for the general public, but not for the class. The Company moved disqualify Plaintiff\x92 new counsel and have the Court dismiss the general public claims for equitable relief. The Court declined disqualify Plaintiff\x92 new counsel dismiss the equitable claims, but did confirm that the class action claims are dismissed. The Company appealed the ruling and the case was stayed pending the outcome the appeal. The Court Appeal denied the appeal SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' August , , affirming the trial court\x92 decision. The Company filed Petition for review with the California Supreme Court which was denied November , . European Commission Investigation The European Commission has notified the Company that investigating certain matters relating the iTunes Music Store the European Union ( ). The European Commission investigating claims made Which?, United Kingdom ( ) consumer association, that the Company violating competition law charging more for online music the than Eurozone countries and preventing consumers from purchasing online music from the iTunes Music Store for Eurozone countries. The Which? claims were originally lodged with the Office Fair Trading, which subsequently referred them the European Commission. The European Commission investigating the charges under Articles and the European Commission Treaty. Gobeli Research Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff Gobeli Research Ltd. filed this patent infringement action against the Company and Sun Microsystems, Inc. April , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , related \x93System and Method Controlling Interrupt Processing.\x94 Plaintiff alleges that the Company\x92 Mac and Mac operating systems infringe Plaintiff\x92 patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer June , , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment non-infringement and invalidity. Markman hearing took place August , , and the Court issued ruling August , invalidating one Plantiff\x92 two claims. October , , Stipulation entered into the parties was filed removing Mac from the case. The trial scheduled for February , . Goldberg, . . Apple Computer, Inc., . ( . \x93Dan . Apple Computer, Inc.\x94) Plaintiffs filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles County Superior Court against the Company and other members the computer industry behalf alleged nationwide class purchasers certain computer hard drives. The case alleges violations California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and false advertising related the size the drives. Plaintiffs allege that calculation hard drive size using the decimal method misrepresents the actual size the drive. The complaint seeks restitution and other relief. Plaintiff filed amended complaint March , and the Company filed answer September , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Defendants filed motion strike portions the complaint based sales resellers and filed motion for judgment the pleadings based upon Proposition . The Court granted both motions hearing April , . Plaintiff filed amended complaint May , . The Defendants filed demurrer June , , which was heard August , . The Court granted the demurrer part and denied part. Plaintiff filed amended complaint. The Company\x92 response not yet due. Honeywell International, Inc., . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs Honeywell International, Inc. and Honeywell Intellectual Properties, Inc. filed this action October , the United States District Court Delaware alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . patent , , entitled \x93Directional Diffuser for Liquid Crystal Display.\x94 Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer December , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has tendered the case several suppliers. May , the Court stayed the case against the Company and the other supplier defendants. Plantiffs filed amended complaint November , adding additional defendants and expanding the scope the accused products. Given the stay, the Company\x92 response the amended complaint not yet due. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' MacTech Systems . Apple Computer, Inc.; Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Computer International, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Elite Computers and Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; The Neighborhood Computer Store . Apple Computer, Inc. MacAccessory Center, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; MacAccessory Center, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. (all Santa Clara County Superior Court) Six resellers have filed similar lawsuits against the Company for various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the Computer International complaint November , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company filed answer the Macadam case December , denying all allegations and asserting numerous defenses. Three the other plaintiffs filed amended complaints February , , and March , the Company filed answers these claims denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. sixth Plaintiff, MacAccessory Center, filed complaint February , . The Company filed answer this complaint April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. These cases are discovery. October , , one the reseller Plaintiffs, Macadam, was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order reinstate reseller, which the Court denied. The Court denied Macadam\x92 motion for preliminary injunction December , . December , Macadam filed for Chapter Bankruptcy the Northern District California, which placed stay the litigation Macadam only. The Company filed claim the bankruptcy proceedings February , . The Company took Macadam\x92 debtor examination April . The Company, joined another creditor Macadam, filed motion convert the bankruptcy Chapter (liquidation) April , and that motion was granted. Plantiffs\x92 counsel four the six other reseller cases, was recently appointed litigation counsel for the Macadam Estate the bankruptcy court. The Company has moved for reconsideration that decision. Premier International Associates LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Premier International Associates LLC (Premier) filed this action November , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patents , , and , , both entitled \x93List Building System.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company\x92 response not yet due. Slattery . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music purchased the iTunes Music Store with the purchase iPods and vice versa and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. Plaintiff\x92 complaint alleged violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business and Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition), common law unjust enrichment and common law monopolization. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss February , . September , , the Court denied the motion part and granted part. Plaintiff filed amended complaint September , and the Company filed answer October , . The case discovery. Stamm . Apple Computer, Inc Allen . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Stamm filed purported class action November , Circuit Court, Cook County, Illinois alleging that defect Apple\x92 -inch Studio Display monitors results dimming half the screen and constant blinking the power light. The Company removed the case Federal Court December , . The Court remanded State Court March , Plaintiff\x92 motion. The Company had filed motion dismiss January , which was taken off calendar due the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' remand. January , second plaintiff, Allen, filed purported nationwide class action Los Angeles Superior Court alleging identical claims. Plaintiff Stamm dismissed the Stamm case September , . amended complaint the Allen case was filed October , , adding additional named plaintiffs and expanding the alleged class include purchasers the -inch Apple Cinema Display and the -inch Apple Cinema Display. The amended complaint alleges that the displays have purported defect that causes dimming one-half the screen, and that the Company misrepresented the quality the displays and concealed the purported defect. Plaintiffs assert claims under California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition); California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising) and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act. The amended complaint seeks remedies including damages and equitable relief. November , , the Company filed answer the amended complaint the allegations regarding the -inch display and demurrer motion strike the allegations regarding the -inch and -inch displays the ground that plaintiffs failed allege that they purchased those displays. status conference November , , the Court ordered Plantiffs amend their complaint. The Company\x92 demurrer off calendar pending this amendment. -Germain . Apple Canada, Inc. Plaintiff filed this case Montreal, Quebec, Canada, August , , seeking authorization institute class action for the refund the Company the Canadian Private Copying Levy that was applied the iPod purchase price Quebec between December , and December , but later declared invalid the Canadian Court. class certification hearing scheduled for January , . The Company has already begun refund program for this levy. Teleshuttle Technologies, LLC and BTG International Inc. . Microsoft and Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this case July , United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging infringement . patent , , , entitled \x93Method and System for Distributing Updates Presenting Directory Software Available for User Installation That Not Already Installed User Station.\x94 Plaintiffs filed amended complaint September , , adding second patent, . patent , , entitled \x93Method and System for Selecting Personalized Set Information Channels.\x94 Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. August , , the Company filed amended answer add charges inequitable conduct. The case discovery. Markman briefing completed. technology tutorial and Markman hearing are tentatively scheduled for January , , and , . Tiger Direct, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Tiger Direct, Inc. filed this trademark infringement action the United States District Court for the Southern District Florida April , alleging infringement the word mark TIGER. Plaintiff claims have valid registration the mark TIGER and alleges that the Company\x92 use TIGER reference the latest version Mac infringes the mark allegedly owned Plaintiff. Plaintiff attempted obtain parte preliminary injunction barring the Company\x92 use the TIGER mark April , but the motion was denied. Plaintiff served the Company April , and again moved for preliminary injunction. Plaintiff\x92 motion was heard May , . May , , the Court denied Plaintiff\x92 motion. The Company filed response the complaint May , , denying all material allegations and asserting counterclaims for cancellation certain marks registered Tiger Direct. June , , Plaintiff filed appeal, but subsequently withdrew . Plaintiff filed response the Company\x92 counterclaims. The parties have reached settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Tse . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiff Keung Tse filed this action against the Company and other defendants August , the United States District Court for the District Maryland alleging infringement the Company . Patent , , entitled \x93Protection Software Again [sic] Against Unauthorized Use.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. October , , the Company and the other defendants filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California. Wimmer . Apple Computer, Inc. (originally filed Tomczak . Apple Computer, Inc. October , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division; amended complaint filed October , ); Moschella, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division); Calado, . . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , , Los Angeles County Superior Court); Kahan, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , , United States District Court for the Southern District New York); Jennings, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed November , , United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division). These federal and state court complaints allege that the Company\x92 iPod nano was defectively designed that scratches excessively during normal use which renders the screen unreadable. The Wimmer and Moschella actions were brought behalf purported nationwide classes iPod nano purchasers, with the exception California purchasers, and allege violations the consumer protection, express and implied warranty statutes each state covered the putative class definition, well negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment under the common laws these jurisdictions. The Calado action was brought behalf purported California class iPod nano purchasers and asserts claims for alleged violation California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, breaches express and implied warranties, negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment. The Jennings action was filed behalf purported class all iPod nano purchasers outside the United States, based upon alleged violations the same California statutes the Calado complaint. The Kahan action was brought behalf purported New York class iPod nano purchasers and alleges claims under the New York unfair competition law, breach express warranty and unjust enrichment. The complaints seek damages and various other remedies. The Company\x92 responses these complaints are not yet due. Two similar complaints, Carpentier . Apple Canada, Inc. , and Royer- Brennan . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc. were filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada, October , and November , , respectively, seeking authorization institute class action behalf iPod nano purchasers Quebec. Union Federale des Consummateurs\x97Que Choisir . Apple Computer France . and iTunes . Plaintiff, consumer association France, filed this complaint February , alleging that the entities above are violating consumer law ) omitting mention that the iPod allegedly not compatible with music from online music services other than the iTunes Music Store and that the music from the iTunes Music Store only compatible with the iPod and ) allegedly tying the sales iPods the iTunes Music Store and vice versa. Plaintiff seeks damages, injunctive relief and other relief. The first hearing the case took place May , . The Company\x92 response the complaint was served November , . Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\x92 fiscal year ended September , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' PART Item . Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities ( ) Stock Market Information The Company\x92 common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol AAPL and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , the Company delisted its shares from trading the Tokyo Stock Exchange. November , , there were , shareholders record. The Company did not pay cash dividends either . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ National Market during each quarter. February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ ( ) Related Shareholder Matters None. ( ) Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Item . Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ , $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net gains before taxes related the Company\x92 non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. net loss before taxes related the Company\x92 non-current debt and equity investments $ million was recognized . , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. , settlement the Company\x92 forward stock purchase agreement resulted gain $ million. Net income during benefited $ million from the reversal certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets, including reductions valuation allowances. Favorable cumulative-effect type adjustments from the adoption new accounting standards, net taxes, $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled \x93Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition\x94 below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' calendar. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows. The Company\x92 products and services include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the iPod digital music player, the Xserve server and Xserve RAID storage products, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, the iTunes Music Store, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, and variety other service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh compatible products, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital camcorders and still cameras, personal digital assistants, and various other computing products and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. further description the Company\x92 products may found Part , Item this document under the heading \x93Business.\x94 The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware, and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers around the world compelling new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Macintosh line computers, consumer electronics with its iPod line digital music players, and distribution third-party digital content through its online iTunes Music Store. While the Company widely recognized innovator the personal computer and consumer electronic markets well leader the emerging market for distribution digital content, these are all highly competitive markets that are subject aggressive pricing and increased competition. remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment research and development ( & ) and marketing and advertising necessary maintain and extend its position the markets where competes. The Company\x92 & spending focused delivering timely updates and enhancements its existing line personal computers, displays, operating systems, software applications, and portable music players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas such rack-mount servers, RAID storage systems, and wireless technologies. The Company also believes investment marketing and advertising programs critical increasing product and brand awareness. June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its Macintosh computers. The Company plans begin shipping certain models with Intel microprocessors June and complete the transition all its Macintosh computers Intel microprocessors the end calendar year . There are potential risks and uncertainties that may occur during this transition, which are further discussed under the heading \x93Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition.\x94 The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available only Macintosh computers, and demonstrate the compatibility the Macintosh with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes that providing SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting and retaining customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company has expanded and improved its distribution capabilities opening its own retail stores the . and internationally. The Company had stores open September , . The Company also staffs selected third-party stores with the Company\x92 own employees improve the buying experience through reseller channels. The Company has deployed Apple employees and contractors reseller locations around the world including the ., Europe, Japan, and Australia. The Company also sells customers directly through its online stores around the world. improve access the iPod product line, the Company has significantly expanded the number distribution points where iPods are sold. The iPod product line can purchased certain department stores, member-only warehouse stores, large retail chains, and specialty retail stores, well through the channels listed above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, and income taxes. Management believes these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, peripherals, digital content, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed the relevant program. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 results operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\x92 direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\x92 assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible . The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\x92 distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\x92 financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer and consumer electronic industries are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are recorded. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Warranty Costs The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\x92 results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company currently evaluating the repatriation provisions the American Jobs Creation Act , which, implemented the Company, would affect the Company\x92 tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. Similarly, the Company subsequently realizes deferred tax assets that were previously determined unrealizable, the respective valuation allowance would reversed, resulting positive adjustment earnings decrease goodwill the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and unit sales thousands): September , Change September , Change September , Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales % ( )% Retail net sales , % , % Other Segments net sales ( ) % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Europe Macintosh unit sales , % % Japan Macintosh unit sales % ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales % % Other Segments Macintosh unit sales ( ) % % Total Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Net Sales Product: Desktops ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Macintosh net sales , % , % , iPod , % , % Other music related products and services ( ) % % Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , % % Software, service, and other sales ( ) , % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Desktops ( ) , % , ( )% , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , ( )% $ , % $ , iPod unit sales , % , % Net sales per iPod unit sold ( ) $ ( )% $ ( )% $ Notes: ( ) Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Power Mac and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes iBook and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Music Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. ( ) Derived dividing total Macintosh net sales total Macintosh unit sales. ( ) Derived dividing total iPod net sales total iPod unit sales. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Fiscal Year versus During , net sales increased % $ billion from . Several factors contributed favorably net sales during : · Net sales iPods rose $ billion % during compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million , which represents increase % from the million iPod units sold . Strong sales iPods during continued experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments and was driven strong demand for the iPod shuffle introduced January , the release updated version the iPod mini February , the release the iPod nano September , and expansion the iPod\x92 distribution network . Net sales per iPod unit sold decreased % primarily due the introduction the lower priced iPod shuffle January and iPod mini pricing reductions February . From the introduction the iPod through , the Company has sold approximately million iPods. · Other music related products and services consists sales associated with the iTunes Music Store and iPod services and accessories. Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The Company has experienced strong growth sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase overall iPod unit sales for . The increased sales from the iTunes Music Store primarily due substantial growth net sales the . and expansion Europe, Canada, and Japan. · Total Macintosh net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Unit sales Macintosh systems increased million units % during compared . The increases Macintosh net sales and unit sales relate primarily strong demand for the Company\x92 desktop products, which was experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments. The Company believes that the success the iPod having positive impact Macintosh net sales introducing new customers the Company\x92 other products. Desktop demand was stimulated due the new iMac and the introduction the Mac mini January . Net sales and unit sales desktop products increased % and %, respectively, during compared . Macintosh net sales and unit sales also include sales the Company\x92 portable products, which increased % and %, respectively, compared . Net sales per Macintosh unit sold decreased % year-over-year basis. The decrease was the result changes the overall unit mix towards relatively lower-priced consumer products, specifically the impact the Mac mini product, and desktop and portable price reductions. This decrease was partially offset increase the proportion direct sales. · The Retail segment\x92 net sales grew % $ billion during compared . This increase largely attributable the increase total stores from the end the end , well % year-over-year increase average revenue per store. While the Company\x92 customers areas where the Retail segment has opened stores may elect purchase from the Retail segment stores rather than the Company\x92 preexisting sales channels the ., Canada, Japan, and the ., the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\x92 net sales incremental the Company\x92 total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance.\x94 · Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose % during compared primarily due increase net sales displays and other computer accessories. Net sales other hardware include AirPort cards and base stations, Xserve RAID storage, iSight digital video cameras, and third-party hardware products. · The Company\x92 . education channel experienced year-over-year growth both net sales and unit sales approximately % for . The increase . education net sales for relates SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' primarily % year-over-year increase higher education net sales due increased iMac shipments, portable system shipments, and online sales. The Company also experienced % growth - net sales due increased iBook sales and education : sales. While net sales the - market were slightly higher during than , the Company believes this market continues subject budget constraints and competitive pressures. · Net sales software, service and other sales rose $ million % during compared . This growth was primarily attributable increased net sales AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) extended service and support contracts, driven primarily higher associated Macintosh computer sales. Additionally, the Company experienced increases net sales Mac Internet service, professional and consumer applications, third-party software, and Mac that was primarily attributable the release version Tiger April . Fiscal Year versus During , net sales increased % $ billion from . Several factors contributed favorably net sales during : · Net sales Macintosh systems increased $ million % during compared while net sales per Macintosh unit sold remained relatively flat year-over-year basis. Unit sales Macintosh systems increased , units % during compared . These increases net sales and unit sales were result strong demand for all the Company\x92 Macintosh systems, except the iMac. The Company\x92 portable systems, consisting the PowerBook and iBook, produced the strongest revenue and unit growth during compared approximately % and %, respectively. Unit sales portable systems accounted for % all Macintosh systems sold during compared only % during . The Company believes that these results reflected overall trend the industry towards portable systems. Performance the Company\x92 Power Macintosh systems also yielded positive results over , including % and % increase net sales and unit sales, respectively. The increase Power Macintosh sales was due primarily the introduction the Power Mac , which began shipping the end . Although Power Macintosh sales increased from , sales this product were constrained the second half result manufacturing problems IBM, the Company\x92 sole supplier the PowerPC processor. · Net sales iPods rose $ million % during compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million , which represents increase % from the , iPod units sold . Strong demand for the iPods during were experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments and was driven enhancements the iPod, the introduction the iPod mini, increased expansion the Company\x92 iPod distribution network, and continued success the iTunes Music Store due largely making available both Macintosh and Windows users the ., ., France, and Germany. · The Retail segment\x92 net sales grew % $ billion during compared . This increase was largely attributable the increase total stores from the end the end , well % year-over-year increase average revenue per store. While the Company\x92 customers areas where the Retail segment has opened stores may have elected purchase from the Retail segment stores rather than the Company\x92 preexisting sales channels the . and Japan, the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\x92 net sales incremental the Company\x92 total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance.\x94 · Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose % during compared primarily due increase net sales displays and other computer accessories. Net sales other SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' computer accessories include AirPort cards and base stations, iSight digital video cameras, and third-party hardware products. The increase total net sales peripherals and other hardware was related the overall increase Macintosh unit sales and the introduction new and updated peripheral products and was experienced predominantly the Company\x92 Americas, Europe, and Retail segments. · Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The Company experienced strong growth sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase overall iPod unit sales for . The increased sales from the iTunes Music Store, which was originally introduced April , was primarily due making the service available for Windows October and the introduction the service the ., France, and Germany June . · Net sales software rose $ million % during compared due primarily higher net sales the Company\x92 Apple-branded software and particular, higher net sales the Company\x92 operating system software, including Mac version \x93Panther,\x94 which was released October . Net sales Panther accounted for approximately $ million over % the increase software net sales for compared . · The Company\x92 . education channel experienced year-over-year growth net sales approximately % for compared . Unit sales also increased % during compared . The increase . education net sales for related primarily % year-over-year increase higher education net sales and lesser extent the Company\x92 % growth - net sales. · Service and other sales increased $ million % during compared . These increases were the result significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with APP extended maintenance and support services, well increased net sales associated with the Company\x92 Mac Internet service. Increased net sales associated with APP were primarily the result higher Macintosh unit sales and higher attach rates APP over the last several years. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\x92 net sales during were negatively impacted the following: · Net sales and unit sales iMac systems were down % and %, respectively, during versus . The decrease iMac net sales and unit sales was largely due the delay the introduction the new iMac, based the PowerPC processor, primarily result manufacturing problems experienced IBM. The delays the new iMac resulted the depletion inventory the old iMac flat panel prior availability the new iMac . The old flat panel iMac form factor, which was available during most , was nearly years old the time the new iMac began shipping September and had experienced declines sales result the age this product. The Company believes that sales iMac systems have also declined due shift consumer preference portable systems and desktop models from competitors with price points below $ , . · Net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Japan segment decreased % and %, respectively, during versus . The Company believes these declines related shift sales from the Japan segment the Retail segment result the Tokyo and Osaka store openings . Declines net sales Japan may have also related delays computer upgrades certain professional and creative customers pending release Japan certain Mac native applications, such Quark Xpress , which did not become available until September . When sales from the Japan retail stores are included the results for the Japan segment, the combined revenue Japan resulted % year-over-year increase compared . See SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' additional comments below related the Japan segment under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance.\x94 Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operated Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . during . Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Americas During , net sales the Americas segment grew % $ billion compared . The increase net sales during was primarily attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPod sales, sales other music related products and services, and strong sales desktop and portable Macintosh systems. This increase was partially offset shift sales the Retail segment, which had stores the . and Canada the end . Macintosh unit sales also increased % compared , driven primarily strong sales desktop systems largely attributable strong sales from the new iMac, which began shipping September , and the Mac mini, which was introduced January . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\x92 total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. noted above, the Company experienced increase both . education channel net sales and unit sales % for compared . Strength higher education sales related primarily strong iMac shipments, portable system shipments, and online sales. This strength drove year-over-year growth net sales % for the higher education channel during . Despite challenges the - market from continued budget constraints and competitive pressures, the Company\x92 - net sales grew year-over-year % during due increased iBook sales and : education sales. During , net sales the Americas segment grew % $ million compared . The increase net sales during was primarily attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPod sales well strong sales peripherals, software, and services. This increase was partially offset shift sales the Retail segment, which had stores the . the end . Macintosh unit sales also increased % compared , driven primarily strong sales portable and Power Macintosh systems, partially offset weakness iMac sales. During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\x92 total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. The Company experienced increase . education channel net sales % for compared . Strong . education net sales for related primarily strength higher education net sales that resulted from successful back- -school selling season with strong demand for the Company\x92 portables. This strength drove year-over-year growth net sales % for the higher education channel during . The Company\x92 - net sales grew year-over-year % during , despite the challenges the - market from continued budget constraints and increased competition. Europe During , net sales the Europe segment grew $ billion % from . Total Macintosh unit sales Europe also experienced growth during the current year increasing % compared SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' . Consistent with the Americas segment, Europe experienced strong net sales desktop products, iPod, other music related products and services, and software and service sales. Demand Europe during was particularly strong for the Company\x92 desktop computers, which experienced year-over-year increase %. Similar the results the Company\x92 other segments, net sales iPods, peripherals and software were strong . Net sales Europe rebounded increasing $ million % from . Total Macintosh unit sales Europe also experienced growth increasing % compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, Europe experienced strong net sales across all product lines, except the iMac systems. Demand Europe during was particularly strong for the Company\x92 Power Macintosh systems and portable Macintosh systems, which experienced year-over-year increases % and %, respectively. Similar the results the Company\x92 other segments, net sales iPods, peripherals and software were strong over . Japan Japan\x92 net sales and Macintosh unit sales were % and %, respectively, during compared . Japan experienced increased net sales desktop products, iPod, and other music related products and services. Desktop net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, and iPod sales increased % during compared . The overall increase net sales was partially offset decline portable system net sales during compared , which the Company believes might attributable shift sales from portables the new iMac and Mac mini, and shift the Retail segment result opening two additional stores Japan during . Japan\x92 net sales and Macintosh unit sales were down % and %, respectively, during compared , which lagged behind all the Company\x92 other operating segments. These decreases net sales and unit sales were believed attributable part shift sales from the Japan segment the Retail segment result the opening two stores Japan . addition, such decreases may have been related delayed computer system upgrades some professional and creative customers who were awaiting the release Quark XPress for Mac , which did not occur until September . The decrease net sales was partially offset strong iPod and iBook sales during compared . Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , including international stores the , Japan, and Canada, bringing the total number open stores September , . This compares open stores September , and open stores September , . Net sales the Retail segment grew $ billion during from $ billion and $ million and , respectively. The increases net sales during both and reflect the impact new store openings for each year, including the opening new stores and new stores . increase average revenue per store also contributed the segment\x92 strong sales . With average stores open during , the Retail segment achieved annualized revenue per store approximately $ million, compared $ million with store average, and $ million with store average. measured the Company\x92 operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported operating income $ million during compared operating income $ million during and operating loss $ million during . This improvement primarily attributable the segment\x92 year-over-year increase average revenue per store, the impact opening new stores, and the segment\x92 year-over-year increase net sales, which resulted higher leverage occupancy, depreciation, and other fixed costs. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment were $ million , bringing the total capital expenditures since inception the Retail segment approximately $ million. September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities approximately $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Gross Margin Gross margin for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): September , September , September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % Gross margin increased % net sales from % net sales . The Company\x92 gross margin during increased due more favorable pricing certain commodity components including LCD flat-panel displays and DRAM memory; increase higher margin software sales; favorable shift direct sales related primarily the Company\x92 Retail and online stores; and higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage fixed production costs. These increases gross margin were partially offset increase lower margin iPod sales. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer and consumer electronics industries will remain under pressure light price competition, especially for the iPod product line. The Company expects gross margin percentage decline the first quarter primarily result shift the mix revenue toward lower margin products such the iPod and content from the iTunes Music Store. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin are forward-looking. There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained targeted gross margin levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products, including iPods, will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\x92 product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin declined % net sales from % net sales . The Company\x92 gross margin during declined due increase mix towards lower margin iPod and iBook sales, pricing actions certain Power Macintosh models that were transitioned during the beginning , higher warranty costs certain portable Macintosh products, and higher freight and duty costs during . These unfavorable factors were partially offset increase direct sales and % year-over-year increase higher margin software sales. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except for percentages): September , September , September , Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ \x97 $ $ Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. The Company has historically relied upon innovation remain competitive. & expense amounted approximately % total net sales during down from % and % total net sales and , respectively. This decrease due the significant increase % total net sales the Company for . Although & expense decreased percentage total net sales , actual expense for & increased $ million % from , which follows $ million % increase compared . The overall increase & expense relates primarily increased headcount and support for new product development activities and the impact employee salary increases . & expense does not include capitalized software development costs approximately $ million related the development Mac Tiger during ; $ million related the development Mac Tiger and $ million related the development FileMaker Pro ; and $ million related the development Mac Panther . Further information related the Company\x92 capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases are due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, current year increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, and higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' merit increases. & percentage total net sales was %, down from % , which due the increase total net sales % for the Company during . Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases were due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, increase amortization costs associated with restricted stock compensation, and higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary merit increases. & percentage total net sales was %, down from % due the increase total net sales for the Company % during . Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations conjunction with the vacating leased sales facility Europe during the fourth quarter related European workforce reduction. the $ million charge, $ million had been utilized the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. These actions will result the termination employees, which had been terminated prior the end . Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations primarily related the closure the Company\x92 Singapore manufacturing operations during the first quarter . the $ million charge, all had been utilized the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. These actions resulted the termination employees. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions): September , September , September , Gains non-current investments, net $ \x97 $ $ Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense \x97 ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments, net \x97 Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Interest and Other Income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ Gains and Losses Non-current Investments The Company previously held significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). Company sold all the remaining holdings these non-current investments and . Pretax gains recorded upon the sale these non-current investments were $ million and $ million and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Interest and Other Income, Net Total interest and other income, net increased $ million % $ million during compared $ million and $ million . These increases are attributable primarily increasing investment yields the Company\x92 cash and short-term investments and higher invested balances. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased % compared the % and % rates earned during and , respectively. The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net losses $ , and net gains $ million and $ million during and , respectively. Partially offsetting the increase other income were higher foreign currency hedging expenses. Interest expense consisted primarily interest the Company\x92 $ million aggregate principal amount unsecured notes, which were repaid upon their maturity February . The unsecured notes were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. Total deferred gain resulting from the closure debt swaps approximately $ million was fully amortized the notes\x92 maturity February . Provision for Income Taxes The Company\x92 effective tax rate for the year ended September , was approximately %. The Company\x92 effective rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the ., research and development tax credits, and reduction certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets. The benefit from adjustments tax contingency reserves and net deferred tax assets was $ million. addition, the Company recorded $ million reduction the valuation allowance associated with deferred tax assets that, management\x92 opinion, are now more likely than not realized the future. $ million the valuation allowance reduction was recorded credit income tax expense, and the remainder was recorded credit goodwill. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\x92 balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. September , and September , , valuation allowance $ million and $ million, respectively, was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax loss carryforwards that may not realized. The remaining valuation allowance September , relates principally certain state operating loss carryforwards. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. October , , the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA) was signed into law. The AJCA includes provision for the deduction % certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, defined the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' AJCA. The legislation provided the Company with the option apply this provision repatriations qualifying earnings either . The Company continuing evaluate the effects the repatriation provision and expects complete the evaluation . maximum $ million may eligible for repatriation under the reduced tax rate provided AJCA. However, given the uncertainties and complexities the repatriation provision and the Company\x92 continuing evaluation, the Company has not yet determined the amount that may repatriated the related potential income tax effects such repatriation. Recent Accounting Pronouncements November , the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Nos. FAS - and FAS - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application Certain Investments . FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - amend SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities, SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Held Not-for-Profit Organizations, well APB Opinion . , The Equity Method Accounting for Investments Common Stock. This guidance nullifies certain requirements EITF - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application Certain Investments . FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - include guidance for evaluating and recording impairment losses debt and equity investments, well new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed temporarily impaired. FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - also require other-than-temporary impaired debt securities written down its impaired value, which becomes the new cost basis. FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - are effective for fiscal years beginning after December , . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. November , the FASB issued SFAS . , Inventory Costs , which amends the guidance Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) . , Chapter , Inventory Pricing , clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). ARB , Chapter , previously stated that \x93under some circumstances, items such idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs may abnormal require treatment current period charges.\x94 SFAS requires that those items recognized current-period charges regardless whether they meet the criterion \x93 abnormal.\x94 addition, SFAS requires that allocation fixed production overhead the costs conversion based the normal capacity the production facilities. SFAS effective for fiscal years beginning after June , . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. December , the FASB issued FSP - , Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act . FSP - provides additional time companies beyond the financial reporting period enactment evaluate the effects the AJCA their plans for repatriation foreign earnings for purposes applying SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes . The Company currently evaluating the repatriation provisions AJCA, which implemented the Company would affect the Company\x92 tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities. However, given the uncertainties and complexities the repatriation provision and the Company\x92 continuing evaluation, not possible this time determine the amount, any, that will repatriated the related potential income tax effects such repatriation. The Company expects complete the evaluation . December , the FASB issued SFAS . (revised ) (SFAS . 123R), Share-Based Payment , that addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' equity instruments. SFAS . 123R eliminates the ability account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and instead requires such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. The Company will recognize stock-based compensation expense all awards straight-line basis over the requisite service period using the modified prospective method. January , the SEC issued SAB . , which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS . 123R. SFAS . 123R will effective for the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . The Company expects the adoption SFAS . 123R will result reduction diluted earnings per common share approximately $ for the first quarter fiscal . March , the FASB issued Interpretation . (FIN) , Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, clarify the requirement record liabilities stemming from legal obligation perform asset retirement activity which the timing method settlement conditional future event. The Company plans adopt FIN the first quarter fiscal , and does not expect the application FIN have material impact its results operations, cash flows financial position. May , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting Changes and Error Corrections which replaces APB Opinion . Accounting Changes and SFAS . , Reporting Accounting Changes Interim Financial Statements\x97 Amendment APB Opinion . . SFAS . requires retrospective application prior periods\x92 financial statements voluntary change accounting principal unless not practicable. SFAS . effective for accounting changes and corrections errors made fiscal years beginning after December , and required adopted the Company the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): September , September , September , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable (DSO) ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Days payables outstanding (DPO) ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ , $ $ ( ) DSO based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Days supply inventory based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. ( ) DPO based ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost sales adjusted for the change inventory. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ billion over the same balances the end . The principal components this increase were \xadcash generated operating activities $ billion and proceeds $ million from the issuance common stock under stock plans, partially offset cash used SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' purchase property, plant, and equipment $ million. The Company\x92 short-term investment portfolio primarily invested high credit quality, liquid investments. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company currently assessing the impact the one-time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted part the American Jobs Creation Act , and may decide repatriate earnings from some its foreign subsidiaries. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Capital Expenditures The Company\x92 total capital expenditures were $ million during , $ million which were for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\x92 Retail segment and $ million which were primarily for corporate infrastructure, including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\x92 Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock during . The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Company\x92 balance sheet current liabilities ( millions): Total Payments Due Less Than year Payments Due - years Payments Due - years Payments Due More Than years Operating Leases $ $ $ $ $ Purchase Obligations , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset Retirement Obligations \x97 Other Obligations \x97 \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ , $ $ $ Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases approximately $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Lease terms the Company\x92 existing major facility operating leases range from years. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ billion. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these agreements, the Company intends prepay total $ billion for flash memory components the end the second quarter . Asset Retirement Obligations The Company\x92 asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. September , , the Company estimates that gross expected future cash flows approximately $ million will required fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations The Company\x92 other obligations approximately $ million are primarily related Internet and telecommunications services. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the demand for the Company\x92 products and the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company\x92 operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions the . and abroad. times the past, demand for the Company\x92 products has been negatively impacted difficult global economic conditions. Additionally, some the Company\x92 education customers appeared delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy and state budget deficits their available funding. Although recent macroeconomic trends seem indicate economic recovery, continued uncertainty about future economic conditions makes difficult forecast future demand for the Company\x92 products and related operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company\x92 products could adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism, public health issues other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery demand products, which could negatively affect the Company\x92 operations and performance. War, terrorism, public health issues and other business interruptions whether the . abroad, have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce creating economic and political uncertainties that may have strong negative impact the global economy, the Company, and the Company\x92 suppliers customers. The Company\x92 major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, other natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\x92 research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Although impossible predict the occurrences consequences any such events, such events could result decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company deliver products its customers receive components from its suppliers, and could create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. addition, should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could negatively impacted the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations the availability freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between various regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition have been, and the future may , adversely affected these events. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services, well digital music devices and related services, highly competitive. the Company unable effectively compete these markets, its results operations could adversely affected. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense competitors who sell Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for personal computing products. The Company\x92 results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\x92 key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several the Company\x92 competitors have introduced announced plans introduce digital music products and online stores offering digital music distribution that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\x92 products. The Company has significant number competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\x92 markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing other competing operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. Additionally, unauthorized copies the Mac are used other companies\x92 hardware products and result decreased demand for the Company\x92 hardware products, the Company\x92 results operations may adversely affected. The Company currently focused market opportunities related digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces increasing competition from other companies promoting their own digital music products, including music enabled cell phones, distribution services, and free peer- -peer music services. These competitors include both new entrants with different market approaches, such subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have greater technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than those the Company, well established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships. Failure effectively compete could negatively affect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. There can assurance that the Company will able continue provide products and services that effectively compete these markets successfully distribute and sell digital music outside the . The Company may also have respond price competition lowering prices and increasing features which could adversely affect the Company\x92 music product gross margins well overall Company gross margins. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company also faces increased competition the . education market. . elementary and secondary schools, well college and university customers, remain core market for the Company. Uncertainty this channel remains several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers, which could negatively affect the Company\x92 market share. effort regain market share and remain competitive, the Company has been and will continue pursue one- -one ( : ) learning solutions education. : learning solutions typically consist iBook portable systems for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server. These : learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result significantly less profitability even financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase maintain its share the education market execute profitably large strategic arrangements. Failure may have adverse impact the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition. The Company\x92 transition from PowerPC microprocessors used Macintosh computers microprocessors built Intel subject numerous risks. June , the Company announced its intention transition from the use PowerPC microprocessors the use Intel microprocessors all its Macintosh computers the end calendar year . This transition subject numerous risks and uncertainties, including the Company\x92 ability timely develop and deliver new products using Intel microprocessors, the timely innovation and delivery related hardware and software products, including the Company\x92 applications, support Intel microprocessors, market acceptance Intel-based Macintosh computers, the development and availability acceptable terms components and services essential enable the Company timely deliver Intel-based Macintosh computers, and the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand for both PowerPC and Intel-based Macintosh computers. addition, the Company dependent third-party software developers such Microsoft and Adobe continuing support current applications that run PowerPC-based computers and timely developing versions current and future applications that run Intel and PowerPC-based Macintosh computers. The Company\x92 inability timely deliver new Intel-based products obtain developer commitment both continue supporting applications that run PowerPC microprocessors and timely transition their applications run natively Intel-based products may have adverse impact the Company\x92 results operations. The Company\x92 announcement its intention transition Intel microprocessors may negatively impact sales current and future Macintosh products containing PowerPC microprocessors, customers may elect delay purchases until the Intel-based products are available. Additionally, there can assurance that the Company will able maintain its historical gross margin percentages its products, including Intel-based Macintosh computers, which may adversely impact the Company\x92 results operations. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\x92 ability obtain sufficient supply components, including microprocessors, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, NAND flash-memory, and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\x92 yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\x92 ability produce and market competitive products dependent the ability and desire IBM and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (Freescale) supply PowerPC microprocessors and Intel supply its microprocessors for the Company\x92 Macintosh computers and provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\x92 competitors. While the Company has supply agreements with IBM and Freescale, the Company\x92 recent announcement plans transition Intel microprocessors may impact the continued availability acceptable terms certain components and services, including PowerPC and microprocessors, which are essential the Company\x92 business and are currently obtained the Company from sole limited sources. Additionally, there have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\x92 suppliers provide advanced PowerPC microprocessors sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\x92 results operations. addition, IBM currently the Company\x92 sole supplier the PowerPC processor, which used the Company\x92 current Power Mac, Xserve, and iMac products. Freescale the sole supplier the processor, which used the Company\x92 eMac, Mac mini, and portable products. IBM experienced manufacturing problems with the PowerPC processor, which resulted the Company delaying the shipment various products and constrained certain product shipments during the second half and the first quarter . Manufacturing problems experienced any the Company\x92 suppliers the future failure them deliver components the Company sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products order remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions the Company\x92 existing products. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance; the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, including the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, and production ramp issues; the availability application software for new products; the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, including anticipated demand for PowerPC-based and Intel-based Macintosh computers; the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. The Company\x92 products from time time experience quality problems that can result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Failure could result lost revenue, loss reputation, and significant warranty and other expense remedy. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are currently adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer and consumer electronics industries and the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may have, material effect the Company\x92 financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, and because the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Most the Company\x92 products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the cost operations, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured services rendered, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the People\x92 Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacturing many the components used the Company\x92 products performed third-party vendors Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and iPods performed third-party vendors China. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted regional economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues, well information technology system failures military actions, the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company\x92 future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\x92 products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail stores. Many the Company\x92 resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected weak economic conditions over the last several years. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\x92 business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\x92 products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company has invested and will continue invest various programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors. These programs could require substantial investment from the Company, while providing assurance return incremental revenue offset this investment. Over the past several years, increasing proportion the Company\x92 net sales has been made the Company directly end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Some the Company\x92 resellers have perceived this expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their own businesses and economic interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Perception such conflict could discourage the Company\x92 resellers from investing additional resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution the Company\x92 products. The Company\x92 business and financial results could adversely affected expansion its direct sales end-users causes some all its resellers cease limit distribution the Company\x92 products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Markets and Distribution.\x94 The Company relies third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their digital content customers through the Company\x92 iTunes Music Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights offer its customers this third-party digital content. The Company\x92 licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term nature and not guarantee the future renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Certain parties the music industry have consolidated and formed alliances, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required offer digital content customers through the iTunes Music Store. Further, some third-party content providers currently, may the future, offer music products and services that compete with the Company\x92 music products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their digital content the future. the Company unable continue offer wide variety digital content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach outside the ., then sales and gross margins the Company\x92 iTunes Music Store well related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management solutions and other security mechanisms. the requirements from content providers artists change, then the Company may required further develop license technology address such new rights and requirements. There assurance that the Company will able develop license SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner, all, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. The Company\x92 future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed available for the Company\x92 hardware products, then customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\x92 personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\x92 hardware products depends part third-party developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products versus software for the larger Windows market growing Linux market. This analysis may based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such software products. the extent the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market has caused software developers question the Company\x92 prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\x92 products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market growing Linux market. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\x92 operating system, timely basis all. June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its Macintosh computers. The Company plans begin shipping certain models with Intel microprocessors June and complete this transition Intel microprocessors for all its Macintosh computers the end calendar year . The Company depends third-party software developers timely develop current and future applications that run Intel and PowerPC microprocessors. The Company\x92 inability timely deliver new Intel-based products, decline available applications that run the Company\x92 PowerPC products the lack applications that run Intel-based Macintosh systems could have materially adverse effect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers, such Microsoft and Adobe, develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\x92 products. The Company currently markets and sells variety software applications for use professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence the decisions third-party software developers develop upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, professional digital photo editing and workflow management, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, word processing, and high-quality presentations. The Company also markets integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases, and presentations single application. Discontinuance third-party products for the Macintosh platform, including Microsoft Office could have adverse effect the Company\x92 net sales and results operations. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company\x92 business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\x92 future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. Because technological changes the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time-consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through October , the Company had opened retail stores. The Company\x92 retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years, the majority which are for years. The Company could incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\x92 costs are fixed because depreciation store construction costs and lease expense. result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience significant decline sales for any reason. Certain the Company\x92 stores have been designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. The Company has opened seven such stores through October . Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' remaining commitments per location ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\x92 future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\x92 consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations outside the .; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has and may the future invest new business strategies engage acquisitions that complement the Company\x92 strategic direction and product roadmap. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management\x92 attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 business, operating results financial condition. Declines the sales the Company\x92 professional products, software, accessories, service and support contracts, increases sales consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\x92 professional products, including Power Macintosh and PowerBook systems, software, accessories, and service and support contracts, generally have higher gross margins than the Company\x92 consumer products, including iMacs, iBooks, iPods, and content from the iTunes Music Store. shift sales mix away from higher margin professional products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the Company\x92 future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\x92 traditional professional customers may choose buy consumer products, specifically the iMac and iBook, instead professional products. Professional users may choose buy the iMac due its relative price performance, use the same PowerPC processor used the Company\x92 Power Macs, and unique design featuring flat panel screen. Potential PowerBook customers may also choose purchase iBooks instead due their price performance and screen size. Additionally, significant future growth iPod sales without corresponding growth higher margin product sales could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages. likely that some the Company\x92 current and potential professional, creative, and small business customers, who are most likely utilize professional systems, believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors the Company utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other computer manufacturers and translates slower overall system performance. These factors may result adverse impact sales the Company\x92 professional products well gross margin and operating margin percentages. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\x92 profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\x92 direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. Additionally, the Company\x92 direct channels have traditionally had more sales software and higher priced hardware products, which generally have higher gross margins, than its indirect channels. result, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages well overall profitability may adversely impacted result shift product, geographic, channel mix, new product announcements, including the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers. addition, the Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\x92 internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\x92 ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 key logistics, components suppliers, manufacturing partners, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenue, than many its competitors. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technologies the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\x92 Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\x92 brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percentage revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivable and prepayments related long-term supply agreements. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has entered into long-term supply agreements secure supply NAND flash-memory and intends prepay total $ billion under these agreements. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The Company\x92 success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members its executive team, and those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' the Company\x92 key employees are located. The Company has relied its ability grant stock options one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options will impair the Company\x92 future ability provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company subject risks associated with the selection, availability, and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional commercial insurance. Such conditions have and may continue result higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, lower coverage limits and may also yield possible policy form exclusions. For some risks, because cost and availability, the Company does not have insurance coverage. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits may have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. Failure information technology systems and breaches the security data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the Company\x92 future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\x92 ability function the normal course business potentially causing delays cancellation customer orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns for its own systems implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can assurance that system failure data security breach the Company third-party vendor will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\x92 revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\x92 products and the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company modify international pricing and affect the value the Company\x92 foreign denominated sales, and some cases, may also increase the cost the Company some product components. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions have been utilized the Company hedge exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Further information related the Company\x92 global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Foreign Currency Risk\x94 and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan, and certain states within the . the future, these laws could have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations. Changes accounting rules could affect the Company\x92 future operating results. Financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject interpretation various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. change from current accounting standards could have significant effect the Company\x92 results operations. December , the FASB issued new guidance that addresses the accounting for share-based payments, SFAS . 123R. April , the SEC deferred the effective date SFAS . 123R years beginning after June , . Therefore, SFAS . 123R will effective for the Company beginning its first quarter fiscal . The Company expects the adoption SFAS . 123R will result reduction diluted earnings per common share approximately $ for the first quarter fiscal . Although the effect from the adoption SFAS . 123R expected have material impact the Company\x92 results operations, future changes various assumptions used determine the fair-value awards issued the amount and type equity awards granted create uncertainty the amount future stock-based compensation expense. Changes the Company\x92 tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\x92 future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the Company subject the continuous examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for income taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have adverse affect the Company\x92 net income and financial condition. The Company\x92 stock price may volatile. The Company\x92 stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that may have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, including lack positive general economic and political conditions and investors\x92 concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\x92 stock the future. addition, increases the Company\x92 stock price may result greater dilution earnings per share. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and its interest rate swap and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\x92 leading industrialized countries, the Company\x92 interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\x92 short-term investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\x92 investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. The Company\x92 exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , approximately $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. September , , $ million the Company\x92 investment portfolio classified short-term investments had maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities, due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized net loss before taxes $ , , and net gains before taxes $ million and $ million , and , respectively result such sales. order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\x92 policy hold investments maturity. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413228644_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' From time time, the Company has entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\x92 floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its debt, and diversify portion the Company\x92 exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company did not enter into any interest rate derivatives during and had open interest rate derivatives September , . Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413228644_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413141962_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Goodwill Acquired intangible assets, net Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) \x97 ( ) Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131358802_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Restructuring costs \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) , ( ) Other income and expense: Gains non-current investments, net \x97 Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes , Provision for income taxes Income before accounting changes , Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes \x97 \x97 Net income $ , $ $ Earnings per common share before accounting changes: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131259130_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) Accumulated Other Total Common Stock Deferred Stock Retained Comprehensive Shareholders\x92 Shares Amount Compensation Earnings Income (Loss) Equity Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Write-off deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , ( ) \x97 \x97 Settlement forward purchase agreement ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income Issuance restricted stock units \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Adjustment common stock related prior year acquisition ( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income , Issuance restricted stock units, net \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ \x97 $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131258765_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income , Cumulative effects accounting changes, net taxes \x97 \x97 ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock-based compensation expense Non-cash restructuring \x97 Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes ( ) Tax benefit from stock options Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Gains sales short-term investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Gains non-current investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Other liabilities Cash generated operating activities , Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , Proceeds from sales non-current investments \x97 Purchases property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Cash (used for) generated investing activities ( , ) ( , ) Financing Activities: Payment long-term debt \x97 ( ) \x97 Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock \x97 \x97 ( ) Cash generated financing activities Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ \x97 $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net $ $ ( ) $ See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131149411_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition its own hardware, software, and peripheral products, the Company sells variety third-party hardware and software products through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Typically, the Company\x92 fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years , , and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. The Company will add this additional week the first fiscal quarter its fiscal year . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Common Stock Split February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. The Company\x92 debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates available-for-sale designation each balance sheet date. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\x92 equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not defined hedges SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, must adjusted fair value through earnings. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts hedge the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. For such contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates, are recognized current earnings other income and expense. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. The Company\x92 inventories consist primarily finished goods for all periods presented. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Asset Retirement Obligations The Company records obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations . The Company reviews legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. determined that legal obligation exists, the fair value the liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow and its present value accreted over the life the related lease operating expense. All the Company\x92 existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 asset retirement liabilities for fiscal and ( millions): Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes , the Company recognized net favorable cumulative effect type adjustment approximately $ million from the adoption SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristic Both Liabilities and Equity and SFAS . . Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three fiscal years ended September , , the Company had material impairment its long-lived assets, except for the impairment certain assets connection with the restructuring actions described Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not amortized but rather tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill impairment tests about August each year. The Company did not recognize any goodwill intangible asset impairment charges , , . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included \x93accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\x92 results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, peripherals, digital content, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from service and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the service coverage periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the service coverage offered under the Company\x92 one-year limited warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies the gross amount billed. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based the relative fair value each element. Each element\x92 allocated revenue recognized when revenue recognition criteria for that element has been met. Fair value generally determined vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), which based the price charged when each element sold separately. the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value any undelivered element included multiple-element arrangement, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, until fair value can objectively determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value delivered element has not been established, the Company uses the residual method recognize revenue the fair value all undelivered elements determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value the undelivered elements deferred and the remaining portion the arrangement fee allocated the delivered elements and recognized revenue. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. When the Company does offer specified upgrade rights, the Company defers revenue for the fair value the specified upgrade right until the future obligation fulfilled when the right the specified upgrade expires. Additionally, limited number the Company\x92 software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect customers\x92 ability pay. Shipping Costs The Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. the fourth quarter , the Company began incurring substantial development costs associated with Mac version Tiger subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration August and the subsequent release developer beta version the product. The Company capitalized approximately $ and $ million during and , respectively, costs associated with the development Tiger. accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset cost sales began April when the Company began shipping Tiger and being recognized straight-line basis over year estimated useful life. During the second quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with FileMaker Pro subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta version, and prior the release the final version the product March . Therefore, during the second quarter , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with the development FileMaker Pro . accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset cost sales began March when the Company began shipping FileMaker Pro and being recognized straight-line basis over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named \x93Panther\x94), subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta June , and prior release the final version the product the first quarter . Therefore, during the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with the development Panther. Amortization this asset began the first quarter when Panther was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation The Company currently measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees . The Company applies the disclosure provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure the fair-value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\x92 employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) required under SFAS . , the pro forma effects stock-based compensation net income and earnings per common share for employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan share purchases have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income over the options\x92 vesting period and the shares\x92 plan period. The Company\x92 pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): Net income\x97 reported $ , $ $ Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss)\x97pro forma $ , $ $ ( ) Net income per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) December , the FASB issued SFAS . (revised ) (SFAS . 123R), Share-Based Payment , which addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. SFAS . 123R eliminates the ability account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under APB Opinion . , and requires instead that such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. January , the SEC issued SAB . , which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS . 123R. SFAS . 123R will effective for the Company beginning the first quarter its fiscal . The Company\x92 assessment the estimated stock-based compensation expense affected the Company\x92 stock price well assumptions regarding number complex variables and the related tax impact. These variables include, but are not limited , the Company\x92 stock price, volatility, and employee stock option exercise behaviors and the related tax impact. The Company will recognize stock-based compensation expense all awards straight-line basis over the requisite service period using the modified prospective method. Although the adoption SFAS . 123R expected have material effect the Company\x92 results operations, future changes various assumptions used determine the fair-value awards issued the amount and type equity awards granted create uncertainty whether future stock-based compensation expense will similar the historical SFAS . pro forma expense. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Additionally, the exercise employee stock options and the vesting restricted stock and restricted stock units can result greater dilutive effect earnings per share. The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share: Numerator ( millions): Income before accounting changes $ , $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 Net income $ , $ $ Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding, excluding unvested restricted stock , , , Effect dilutive options, restricted stock units and restricted stock , , , Denominator for diluted earnings per share , , , Basic earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Basic earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities representing approximately million, million, and million shares common stock for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. These potentially dilutive securities include stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. Information about the Company\x92 products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued expenses approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments ( millions): September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , , Foreign securities , Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities , . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , The Company\x92 . corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had net unrealized losses totaling $ million its investment portfolio, approximately half which related investments with stated maturities less than year September , and net unrealized losses $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities less than year September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. The Company recognized net loss before taxes $ , and net gains before taxes $ million and $ million and , respectively, result such sales. These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. September , , approximately $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) accordance with EITF - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments , the following table shows gross unrealized losses and fair value for those investments that were unrealized loss position September , and September , , aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agencies $ $ ( ) $ $ \x97 $ $ ( ) Corporate bonds ( ) \x97 ( ) Certificate deposits \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset backed securities ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Commercial paper , ( ) \x97 \x97 , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agencies $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) Corporate bonds \x97 ( ) ( ) Certificate deposits ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Asset backed securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Commercial paper , ( ) \x97 \x97 , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Market values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. The decline value these investments primarily related changes interest rates and considered temporary nature. Investments are reviewed periodically identify possible impairment. When evaluating the investments, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the issuer, and the Company\x92 ability and intent hold the investment for period time which may sufficient for anticipated recovery market value. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\x92 direct customers. These credit financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. customer accounted for more than % trade receivables September , September , . The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): September , September , September , Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balance sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the products are sold through the end customer which time the profit recognized reduction cost sales. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate derivative agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\x92 accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ $ $ Sold options $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ Purchased options $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models and prevailing financial market information September , and September , . Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\x92 . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\x92 non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company recognized net losses $ million and $ million and , respectively, other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\x92 forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. net gains, losses, similar nature were recorded . September , , the Company had net deferred gain associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million, net taxes, substantially all which expected reclassified earnings the end the second quarter fiscal . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument designated net investment hedge included the cumulative translation adjustment account accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders\x92 equity. September , and September , , the Company had net gain $ , and net loss $ million, respectively, included the cumulative translation adjustment. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities recorded non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. Due currency market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Interest Rate Risk Management From time time, the Company historically entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\x92 floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense any outstanding long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\x92 exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. During and , the Company entered into and then subsequently terminated various interest rate debt swap agreements generating realized gain $ million. These gains were deferred and amortized over the remaining life the underlying debt, which matured and was repaid February . September , and September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company previously held significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). Company sold all the remaining holdings these non-current investments and . Pretax gains recorded upon the sale these non-current investments were $ million and $ million and , respectively. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Other Current Assets Vendor non-trade receivables $ $ Other current assets Total other current assets $ $ Property, Plant, and Equipment Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ Other Assets Non-current deferred tax assets $ $ Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ $ Accrued Expenses Deferred revenue\x97current $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ , $ , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) (Continued) Non-current Liabilities Deferred revenue\x97non-current $ $ Deferred tax liabilities Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities $ $ Interest and Other Income, net Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense \x97 ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments \x97 Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ Note \x97Goodwill and Other intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ During the fourth quarter , the Company recorded adjustment approximately $ million goodwill relating reduction valuation allowances that were recorded the time certain net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) were acquired previous business combinations. During the fourth quarter , these NOLs were deemed more likely than not realized and accordingly the valuation allowances were reversed against the related goodwill that was recognized the time the acquisitions. During the third quarter , the Company recorded adjustment approximately $ million goodwill related the acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool) . This reduction goodwill included the cancellation , shares the Company\x92 common stock, valued approximately $ million, that were previously held escrow and were refunded upon resolution certain matters arising out the acquisition PowerSchool. This adjustment also included approximately $ million adjust the original estimates the pre-acquisition PowerSchool restructuring liability actual costs incurred. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Goodwill and Other intangible Assets (Continued) Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Note \x97Restructuring Charges Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations conjunction with the vacating leased sales facility related European workforce reduction during the fourth quarter . the $ million charge, $ million had been utilized the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. These actions will result the termination employees, which had been terminated prior the end . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during ( millions): Employee Severance Asset Lease Benefits Impairments Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Accrual September , $ $ \x97 $ $ Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations primarily related the closure the Company\x92 Singapore manufacturing operations during the first quarter . the $ million charge, all had been utilized the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally expected and shortfall SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restructuring Charges (Continued) approximately $ , was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\x92 Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. These actions resulted the termination employees. The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during ( millions): Employee Deferred Severance Compensation Asset Lease Benefits Write-off Impairments Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Accrual September , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ $ $ Deferred ( ) State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\x92 foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Income Taxes (Continued) October , , the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA) was signed into law. The AJCA includes provision for the deduction % certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, defined the AJCA. The legislation provided the Company with the option apply this provision repatriations qualifying earnings either . The Company continuing evaluate the effects the repatriation provision and expects complete the evaluation . maximum $ million may eligible for repatriation under the reduced tax rate provided AJCA. However, given the uncertainties and complexities the repatriation provision and the Company\x92 continuing evaluation, the Company has not yet determined the amount that may repatriated the related potential income tax effects such repatriation. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ $ Tax losses and credits Basis capital assets and investments Accounts receivable and inventory reserves Other Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . portion these carryforwards was acquired from the Company\x92 previous acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , and September , , valuation allowance $ million and $ million, respectively, was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The remaining valuation allowance relates principally the state operating losses. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Income Taxes (Continued) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): Computed expected tax $ $ $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other items ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ Effective tax rate % % % During , the Company reversed certain tax contingency reserves and recorded corresponding benefit income tax expense primarily result change the estimated outcome certain tax disputes. Additionally, during the fourth quarter , the Company recorded benefit tax expense adjust its net deferred tax assets result the Company\x92 year-end review its deferred tax accounts, the impact which was not material the current prior periods\x92 results operations. The total benefit income tax expense from the reversal these tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets was $ million. The Company also recorded $ million credit income tax expense resulting from reduction the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity Preferred Stock The Company has million shares authorized preferred stock, none which outstanding. Under the terms the Company\x92 Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\x92 authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity (Continued) Restricted Stock Units During and , the Company\x92 Board Directors approved the grant , and million restricted stock units, respectively, members the Company\x92 senior management team, excluding its CEO. These restricted stock units generally vest over four years either two equal installments the second and fourth anniversaries the date grant equal installments each the first through fourth anniversaries the grant date. Upon vesting, the restricted stock units will convert into equivalent number shares common stock. The Company has recorded $ million and $ million and , respectively, value for these restricted stock units component shareholders\x92 equity and amortizing the amounts straight-line basis over the four-year requisite service period. The value the restricted stock units was based the closing market price the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. The restricted stock units have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company entered into Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the Agreement) with . Steven . Jobs, its CEO. The Agreement cancelled stock option awards for the purchase million shares the Company\x92 common stock previously granted . Jobs and . . Jobs retained options purchase , shares the Company\x92 common stock granted August his capacity member the Company\x92 Board Directors, prior becoming the Company\x92 CEO. The Agreement replaced the cancelled options with restricted stock award million shares the Company\x92 common stock. The restricted stock award generally vests three years from the date grant. Vesting some all the restricted shares will accelerated the event . Jobs terminated without cause, dies, has his management role reduced following change control the Company. The Company determined the value the restricted stock award accordance with APB Opinion . and has recorded the value deferred stock compensation component shareholders\x92 equity and amortizing that amount straight-line basis over the year service period. The value the restricted stock award was based the closing market price the Company\x92 common stock the date the award. The million restricted shares have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\x92 common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity (Continued) Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under . generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net taxes ( millions): Unrealized gains/(losses) available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Unrealized gains/(losses) derivative investments ( ) ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation \x97 ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) $ \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ \x97 $ ( ) $ Adjustment for net gains realized and included net income \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities $ \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains losses included net income was $ million and $( ) million for and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): Changes fair value derivatives $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Adjustment for net gains realized and included net income Change unrealized gain loss derivative instruments $ $ $ ( ) The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $( ) million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains losses reclassified from other comprehensive income net income was $( ) million, $( ) million, and $( ) million for , , and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the Plan) shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based grants employees, including executive officers. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. October , the Company terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan and cancelled all remaining unissued shares totaling , , . new options can granted from the Plan. Employee Stock Option Exchange Program March , , the Company announced voluntary employee stock option exchange program (the Exchange Program) whereby eligible employees, other than executive officers and members the Board Directors, had opportunity exchange outstanding options with exercise prices above $ per share for predetermined smaller number new stock options issued with exercise prices equal the fair market value one share the Company\x92 common stock the day the new awards were issued, which was least six months plus one day after the exchange options were cancelled. April , , accordance with the Exchange Program, the Company cancelled options purchase , , shares its common stock. October , , new stock options totaling , , shares were issued employees exercise price $ per share, which equivalent the closing price the Company\x92 stock that date. financial accounting impact the Company\x92 financial position, results operations cash flow was associated with this transaction. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\x92 executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook, . Peter Oppenheimer, . Jonathan Rubinstein, . Philip . Schiller, . Bertrand Serlet, and . Avadis Tevanian, ., have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting restricted stock units. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\x92 compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. Beginning with the six-month offering period that started June , , the number shares authorized for issuance limited total million shares per offering period. During , , and , adjusted for the February stock split million, million, and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) Stock Option Activity summary the Company\x92 stock option activity and related information for the last three fiscal years follows (share amounts are presented thousands): Shares Outstanding Options Available Number Weighted Average for Grant Shares Exercise Price Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Units Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Restricted Stock Units Granted ( ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted Stock Units Cancelled \x97 \x97 Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ conjunction with the amendments the Plan that were approved the Annual Meeting Shareholders held April , , the number shares available for grant under the Plan will reduced two times the number restricted shares and restricted stock units granted. This amendment effective for all grants made after April , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) The options outstanding September , have been segregated into eight ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ $ $ -$ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ -$ , $ , $ September , , the Company had exercisable options outstanding purchase million shares with weighted average exercise price $ per share. September , , the Company had exercisable options outstanding purchase million shares with weighted average exercise price $ per share. The Company had million restricted stock units outstanding September , , which were excluded from the options outstanding balances the preceding tables. None these restricted stock units was vested September , . These restricted stock units have been deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\x92 stock option plans. Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value method accounting for stock compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the option awards issued October and the awards cancelled part the Employee Stock Option Exchange Program have been accounted for using modification accounting. accordance with SFAS . , the grant date the awards issued the date acceptance the exchange offer participating employees. The cancellation certain the Company\x92 CEO\x92 options and replacement with restricted shares March also being accounted for using modification accounting for purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation (Continued) The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: Expected life stock options - years years - years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options % - % % - % % - % Interest rate\x97stock purchases % - % % - % % - % Volatility\x97stock options % - % % % - % Volatility\x97stock purchases % - % % - % % - % Dividend yields \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company are based the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\x92 stock options and other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\x92 common stock and the impact unusual fluctuations not reasonably expected recur the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock options grants employees. Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ million, which $ million related leases for retail space. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94)) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\x92 CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Long-Term Supply Agreements Subsequent September , , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these agreements, the Company intends prepay total $ billion for flash memory components the end the second quarter . Contingencies The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity, results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 financial condition, liquidity, results operations. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , the Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\x92 subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies,\x94 except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales. The Retail segment\x92 performance also evaluated based operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress that not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and respectively. Operating income for all segments, except Retail, includes cost sales manufacturing standard cost, other cost sales, related sales and marketing costs, and certain general and administrative costs. This measure operating income, which includes manufacturing profit, provides comparable basis for comparison between the Company\x92 various geographic segments. Certain manufacturing expenses and related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) Management assesses the operating performance the Retail segment differently than assesses the operating performance the Company\x92 geographic segments. The Retail segment revenue and operating income intended depict measure comparable that the Company\x92 major channel partners the . operating retail stores the Company can evaluate the Retail segment performance were channel partner. Therefore, the Company makes three significant adjustments the Retail segment for management reporting purposes that are not included the results the Company\x92 other segments. First, the Retail segment\x92 operating income includes cost sales for Apple products amount normally charged major channel partners the . operating retail stores, less the cost sales programs and incentives provided those channel partners and the Company\x92 cost support those partners. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , , this resulted the recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Second, the Company\x92 service and support contracts are transferred the Retail segment the same cost that charged the Company\x92 major retail channel partners the ., resulting measure revenue and gross margin for those items that comparable between the Company\x92 Retail stores and those retail channel partners. The Retail segment recognizes the full amount revenue and cost sales the Company\x92 service and support contracts the time sale. Because the Company has not yet earned the revenue incurred the costs associated with the sale these contracts, offset these amounts recognized other operating segments\x92 net sales and cost sales. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets other operating segments, $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , the net sales and cost sales recognized the Retail segment for sales service and support contracts were $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment $ million and $ million, respectively. Third, the Company has opened seven high profile stores New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, Tokyo, Japan, Osaka, Japan, and London, England September , . These high profile stores are larger than the Company\x92 typical retail stores and were designed further promote brand awareness and provide venue for certain corporate sales and marketing activities, including corporate briefings. such, the Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with these stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated benefit realized Company-wide. The allocation these operating costs based the amount incurred for high profile store excess that incurred more typical Company retail location. Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these stores were $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ Operating income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) Depreciation, amortization, and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Other Segments ( ): Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments include Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ $ Retail manufacturing margin ( ) Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Restructuring costs \x97 ( ) ( ) Consolidated operating income (loss) $ , $ $ ( ) Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Corporate assets , , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization, and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ ( ) Represents the excess the Retail segment\x92 cost sales over the Company\x92 standard cost sales for products sold through the Retail segment. ( ) Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the ., Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): Net Sales: . $ , $ , $ , Japan , Other Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: . $ $ $ Japan Other Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): Net Sales: Desktops ( ) $ , $ , $ , Portables ( ) , , , Total Macintosh net sales , , , iPod , , Other music related products and services ( ) Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , Software, service, and other net sales ( ) , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Power Mac and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes iBook and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Music Store sales and iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement became effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ million, $ , , and $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , , and , respectively. All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included selling, general, and administrative expenses the consolidated statements operations. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into agreement with Pixar sell certain Pixar\x92 short films the iTunes Music Store. . Steven . Jobs, the Company\x92 CEO also the CEO, Chairman, and large shareholder Pixar. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth quarter benefited $ million from the reversal certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets, including reductions valuation allowances. Net income during the fourth, third, and second quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Net income during the fourth quarter included after-tax gains related non-current investments $ million. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the consolidated financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion management\x92 assessment , and the effective operation internal control over financial reporting. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for asset retirement obligations and for financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity . / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413759130_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO). Apple Computer, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness Apple Computer, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that Apple Computer, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting September , , fairly stated, all material respects, based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued COSO. Also, our opinion, Apple Computer, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued COSO. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion those consolidated financial statements. / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413759130_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. Item . Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act) were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended). Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based this evaluation, management has concluded that the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144833341_D11492_688001\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' effective September , . The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, has issued attestation report the Company\x92 assessment its internal control over financial reporting. The report the audit internal control over financial reporting appears page this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were significant changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting identified management\x92 evaluation during the fourth quarter fiscal that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. Item . Other Information None. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144833341_D11492_688001\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\x92 seven directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. Name Position With the Company Age Director Since Fred . Anderson Director William . Campbell -lead Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert . Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson -lead Director Jerome . York Director Fred . Anderson has been founding partner Elevation Partners, private equity firm focused the media and entertainment industry, since July . Previously, . Anderson served the Company\x92 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April June . . Anderson also serves the Board Directors eBay Inc. William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. (\x93Intuit\x94) since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the Board Directors Opsware, Inc. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since January . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Albert . Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. since . has also served Executive Chairman Current since and Chairman Generation Investment Management since . visiting professor Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the . . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the Cabinet and the National Security Council. Prior , served eight years the . Senate and eight years the . House Representatives. Steven . Jobs one the Company\x92 -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. Arthur . Levinson, . has been Chief Executive Officer and Director Genentech Inc. (\x93 Genentech\x94 ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . . Levinson also serves the Board Directors Google, Inc. Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company that controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\x92 Board Directors from January August . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Exide Technologies. Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that governance far more than \x93check the box\x94 approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\x92 website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (\x93 Nominating Committee\x94 ) and Audit and Finance Committee (\x93 Audit Committee \x94). All committee members are independent under the listing standards the NASDAQ Stock Market. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\x92 independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\x92 accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Members the Audit Committee are Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson. The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\x92 executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\x92 equity compensation plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, and Gore. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\x92 corporate governance guidelines. The Nominating Committee also considers nominees proposed shareholders. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Drexler and Gore and . Levinson. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available Apple\x92 website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert All members the Company\x92 Audit Committee, Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson, qualify \x93audit committee financial experts\x94 under Item ( ) Regulation - and are considered \x93independent\x94 the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\x92 employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and its Board Directors. copy this code, \x93Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide\x94 available the Company\x92 SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' website www apple com investor. The Company intends disclose any changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled \x93 Directors. \x94 Timothy . Cook , Chief Operating Officer (age ), joined the Company February . . Cook also served with the Company Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations from . , his responsibilities were expanded include the Company\x92 Macintosh hardware engineering. From , . Cook served the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Sales, Service and Support. Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (\x93 Compaq\x94 ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. . Cook also serves member the Board Directors Nike, Inc. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT Software, Inc. (\x93 NeXT \x94) from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (\x93 ADP\x94 ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, iPod Division (age ), joined the Company February . . Rubinstein also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering. Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\x92 acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\x92 acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\x92 officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\x92 equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93 SEC \x94). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the \x93 Named Executive Officers\x94 ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Chief Executive Officer \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) Chief Operating Officer , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( ) Ronald . Johnson , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , ( ) \x97 \x97 , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Peter Oppenheimer , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) Senior Vice President and , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) Chief Financial Officer , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) Senior Vice President, , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) iPod Division , \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( ) ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity Director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs million (split-adjusted) restricted shares the Company\x92 Common Stock that generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) Market value restricted stock units granted March , (based $ per share, the closing price the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ National Market the day grant). Restricted stock units generally vest over four years with % the total number shares vesting each the second and fourth anniversaries the grant date. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options, restricted stock, restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. The table has been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES Shares Acquired Exercise Value Realized Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name (#) ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 ( ) $ , , ( ) \x97 Timothy . Cook , $ , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 Ronald . Johnson , , $ , , , , , ( ) $ , , $ , , Peter Oppenheimer \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein , , $ , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the NASDAQ National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Consists , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible receive option grants under the Director Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. ( ) This does not include million restricted shares granted . Jobs, , restricted stock units granted . Cook, and , restricted stock units granted each Messrs. Johnson, Oppenheimer, and Rubinstein. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board base substantial portion director\x92 annual retainer equity. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the \x93 Director Plan\x94 ) and , , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\x92 non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (\x93 Initial Options\x94 ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\x92 initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (\x93 Annual Options\x94 ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Non-employee directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. addition, directors receive two free computer systems per year and are eligible purchase additional equipment discount. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler and Gore, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered \x93independent\x94 directors under the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' applicable NASDAQ rules. There were interlocks insider participation between any member the Board Compensation Committee and any member the board the directors compensation committee another company. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options, Restricted Stock, and Restricted Stock Units the event \x93change control\x94 the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\x92 stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become fully exercisable, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable \x93change control price\x94 and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon \x93change control\x94 the Company, all outstanding options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable \x93change control price\x94 and the exercise price the options. \x93change control\x94 under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\x92 outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options, restricted stock grants, and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there \x93change control,\x94 defined the Company\x92 stock option plans, and connection with following such \x93change control,\x94 their employment terminated without \x93Cause\x94 they should resign for \x93Good Reason,\x94 those options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units outstanding that are not yet vested the date such \x93change control\x94 shall become fully vested. Further, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers also provide that, the event the Company terminates the Officer without cause any time, the restricted stock units and restricted stock will vest full. Generally, \x93Cause\x94 defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. \x93Good Reason\x94 includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the \x93 Table Date \x94) with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\x92 Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading \x93 Executive Compensation; \x94 and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. addition, unless otherwise indicated, all persons named below can reached Apple Computer, Inc., Infinite Loop, Cupertino, . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Security Ownership % Holders, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Fidelity Investments , , ( ) % Barclays Global Investors , , ( ) % AXA , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert . Gore, . , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Peter Oppenheimer , ( ) * Jonathan . Rubinstein , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , ( ) % ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. This does not include options restricted stock units that vest after days. The share numbers have been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Based Form 13F filed November , FMR Corp. FMR Corp. lists its address Devonshire Street, Boston, , , such filing. ( ) Based Form 13F filed November , , Barclays Global Investors. Barclays Global Investors lists its address Fremont Street, San Francisco, . ( ) Based Form 13F filed November , , AXA. AXA lists its address , Avenue Matigon, Paris, France . ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Campbell has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Excludes , restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Consists , shares Common Stock that . Gore has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options and excludes , restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock that . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Oppenheimer has the right acquire exercise stock options and excludes , restricted stock units. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ( ) Excludes , restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . York has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that executive officers directors have the right acquire exercise stock options. Does not include million restricted stock units. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\x92 equity compensation plans. The table has been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ \x97 Total equity compensation plans( ) , , $ , , ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan, and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. The grant , , shares restricted stock units has been deducted from the number shares available for future issuance. Shares restricted stock and restricted stock units granted after April count against the shares available for grant two shares for every share granted. This amount does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan that was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with prior acquisition company that originally granted those options. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under the assumed plan. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . October , the Company entered into agreement with Pixar sell certain Pixar\x92 short films the iTunes Music Store. . Jobs, the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer also the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, and large shareholder Pixar. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees , ( ) , Tax Fees , ( ) , All Other Fees \x97 \x97 Total $ , , $ , , ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\x92 annual financial statements and internal control over financial reporting, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\x92 Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees primarily relate professional services for the audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\x92 expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for international tax consulting and planning services. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Auditors Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the \x93 Act \x94), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that the audit and non-audit services and related budget approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. accordance with this policy, all services performed KPMG were pre-approved the Audit Committee. Subsequent the enactment the Act, the Audit Committee met with KPMG further understand the provisions that Act relates auditor independence. KPMG rotated the lead audit partner for fiscal year and will rotate other partners appropriate compliance with the Act. The Audit Committee will continue monitor the activities undertaken KPMG comply with the Act. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' PART Item . Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. ( ) Index Exhibits Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Filing Date/ Period End Date Filed herewith Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through June , . - Certificate Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, amended, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\x92 % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132319872_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Plan, amended through November , . Reimbursement Agreement dated May , and between the Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated March , and between The Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. - - Alternative Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan dated April , . - Form Election Satisfy Tax Withholding with Stock. - Form Option Agreements. * Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. - * Purchase Agreement effective August , between the Registrant and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Code Ethics the Company. - Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer. Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer. Section Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. * Confidential Treatment requested certain portions this exhibit. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132319872_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this day November . Apple Computer, Inc. : / / PETER OPPENHEIMER Peter Oppenheimer Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Peter Oppenheimer, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: Name Title Date / / STEVEN . JOBS STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) November , / / PETER OPPENHEIMER PETER OPPENHEIMER Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Principal Accounting Officer) November , / / FRED ANDERSON FRED ANDERSON Director November , / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL WILLIAM . CAMPBELL Director November , / / MILLARD . DREXLER MILLARD . DREXLER Director November , / / ALBERT GORE, . ALBERT GORE, . Director November , / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ARTHUR . LEVINSON Director November , / / JEROME . YORK JEROME . YORK Director November , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132259568_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ", 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia Pacific region. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leased space includes approximately , square feet retail space, majority which the . Lease terms for retail space range from years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns , square-foot manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also houses customer support call center. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California that houses warehousing and distribution operations well customer support call center. addition, the Company owns approximately , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125847160_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 3. ': "Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 results operations. Advanced Audio Devices LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Advanced Audio Devices (AAD) filed this action March , the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois, Eastern Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patent , , entitled \x93Music Jukebox.\x94 The complaint sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer May , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties have reached settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. Apple Corps Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Apple Computer, Inc. . Apple Corps Ltd. Plaintiff Apple Corps filed this action July , the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, London alleging that the Company has breached agreement that resolved earlier trademark litigation between the parties regarding use certain Apple marks. Plaintiff seeks injunction, unspecified damages, and other relief. The Company filed motion October , , challenging jurisdiction the . The Court denied this motion April , . The Company filed appeal the Court\x92 decision but subsequently withdrew the appeal. November , Plaintiff served the Company with Amended Bill Particulars and December , the Company filed Defence. Plaintiff has indicated its intention file -Amended Bill Particulars. The Company\x92 Defence the -Amended Bill Particulars not yet due. Trial set for the week March , . October , , the Company filed lawsuit against Apple Corps the United States District Court for the Northern District California requesting declaratory judgment that the Company has not breached the agreement. Apple Corps challenged jurisdiction the California case but the Court denied that challenge March , . Apple Corps subsequently prevailed motion stay the California case during the pendency the . action. The Company has dismissed the California lawsuit without prejudice. Bader . Anderson; Bader . Apple Computer, Inc. . . Plaintiff filed this purported shareholder derivative action against the Company and each its current executive officers and members its Board Directors May , Santa Clara County Superior Court asserting claims for breach fiduciary duty, material misstatements and omissions, and violations California Businesses and Professions Code § (unfair competition). Plaintiff alleges that the Company\x92 March , proxy statement was false and misleading for failure disclose certain information relating the Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan which was approved shareholders the annual meeting held April , . Plaintiff, who ostensibly brings suit the Company\x92 behalf, has made demand the Board Directors and alleges that such demand excused. Plaintiff seeks injunctive and other relief for purported injury the Company. July , , Plaintiff filed amended complaint alleging that, addition the purported derivative claims, adoption the bonus plan and distribution the proxy statement describing that plan also inflicted injury her SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' directly individual shareholder. Defendants filed demurrer which scheduled heard December , . Baghdasarian, . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this action Los Angeles County Superior Court October , , behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers all Apple wireless products (router, modem, adaptor) sold any time. The complaint alleges that the Company misrepresented the transmission rates these products. The complaint alleges causes action for breach express warranty and for violations the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising). The complaint seeks damages and equitable remedies. The Company\x92 response the complaint not yet due. Branning . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court February , . The complaint alleges violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) regarding variety purportedly unfair and unlawful conduct including, but not limited , allegedly selling used computers new and failing honor warranties. Plantiffs also bring causes action for misappropriation trade secrets, breach contract, and violation the Song Beverly Act. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The Company received service the complaint March , , and March , the Company filed motion transfer the case Santa Clara County Superior Court. May , , the Court granted the motion and transferred the case Santa Clara County Superior Court. May , , Plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding two new named Plaintiffs and three new causes action including claim for treble damages under the Cartwright Act (California Business and Professions Code § seq.) and claim for false advertising. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint which the Court sustained its entirety November , . The Court granted Plaintiffs leave amend their complaint. Burrow . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action Orange County Superior Court February , alleging false advertising regarding the copy protection capabilities DVD Studio Pro. The Complaint alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising) and negligent misrepresentation. Plaintiff requested unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties have reached settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. Butzer, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this action August , , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division, behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers the Company\x92 PowerBook portable computers. The complaint alleges defects the memory the computers. The complaint alleges that this purported defect extends other series the Company\x92 portables and states that plaintiffs reserve the right amend the complaint include these other series. Plaintiffs assert claims for alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. The complaint seeks remedies including restitution and damages and injunctive relief. The Company filed answer October , denying the material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Cagney . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles County Superior Court, alleging improper collection sales tax transactions involving mail- rebates. The complaint alleges violations California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition) and seeks restitution and other relief. The Company filed answer February , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\x92 counsel, which the Court denied. The Company filed petition for writ mandate with respect this ruling and the Court Appeal issued order show cause why the writ should not issue. Plaintiff\x92 lead counsel subsequently withdrew. February , the Court Appeal ruled that the trial court abused its discretion failing grant the Company\x92 motion disqualify and ordered the trial court disqualify both Plaintiff\x92 law firms upon remand. The trial court issued the disqualification order May , . May , Plaintiff substituted new counsel. The Company has obtained opinion the tax issue from the State Board Equalization. Discovery stayed. Clark . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action February , Santa Clara County Superior Court alleging defects the Company\x92 \x93 - \x94 power adapters. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The parties reached tentative settlement this matter. The Court granted preliminary approval the settlement April , . November , , the Court continued the hearing final settlement approval until January , , when all claims will have been received and completely processed and relevant claim information has been reported the Court. Settlement this matter the terms preliminarily approved the Court will not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. Compression Labs, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., .; Apple . Compression Labs, Inc., . Plaintiff Compression Labs, Inc. filed this patent infringement action April , against the Company and twenty-seven other defendants the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , (the \x91 patent). Plaintiff alleges that the Company infringes the patent complying with the JPEG standard defined CCITT Recommendation entitled \x93Information Technology\x97Digital Compression and Coding Continuous Tone Still Images\x97Requirements and Guidelines.\x94 Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. July , , the Company and several other defendants the Texas action filed lawsuit the United States District Court Delaware against Compression Labs, Inc. and two other companies, requesting declaratory judgment noninfringement, invalidity, implied license, and unenforceability with respect the \x91 patent. Additional actions regarding this patent have been filed other jurisdictions. February , , the Panel Multi-District Litigation (MDL) granted petition filed certain defendants, seeking coordination and transfer all these cases one court for pre-trial proceedings. The MDL Panel has transferred all the cases the Northern District California. The defendants the Texas and Delaware actions had filed motions dismiss prior the transfer and both motions are still pending. Markman hearing set for February , . Contois Music Technology LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Contois Music Technology (\x93Contois\x94) filed this action June , the United States District Court for Vermont, alleging infringement the Company . Patent . , , , entitled \x93Computer Control System and User Interface for Media Playing Devices.\x94 The complaint, which was served October , , seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer November , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Craft . Apple Computer, Inc . (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Chin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Mateo County Superior Court); Hughes . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Santa Clara County Superior Court); Westley . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , San Francisco County Superior Court); Keegan . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , Alameda County Superior Court); Wagya . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Alameda County Superior Court); Yamin . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , Los Angeles County Superior Court); Kieta . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed July , , Alameda County Superior Court) Eight separate plaintiffs filed purported class action cases various California courts alleging misrepresentations the Company relative iPod battery life. The complaints include causes action for violation California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Action and claims for false advertising, fraudulent concealment, and breach warranty. The complaints seek unspecified damages and other relief. The cases were consolidated San Mateo County and Plaintiffs thereafter filed consolidated complaint. August , , the Company filed answer denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties reached tentative settlement and the Court granted preliminary approval the settlement May , . The trial court entered order granting final approval the settlement August , . appeal challenging the trial court\x92 approval the settlement was filed October , ; the appeal pending. Settlement this matter the terms approved the Court will not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. similar complaint relative iPod battery life, Mosley . Apple Computer, Inc. was filed Westchester County, New York June , alleging violations New York General Business Law Sections (unfair competition) and (false advertising). The Company removed the case Federal Court and Plaintiff filed motion for remand, which the Court has not yet decided. This case stayed and part the settlement, now appeal, referred above. similar complaint related the iPod battery life, Lenzi . Apple Canada, Inc. , was filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada, June , , seeking authorization institute class action behalf Generations , and iPod owners Quebec. class certification hearing has been scheduled for January , . Two similar complaints relative iPod battery life, Wolfe . Apple and Hirst . Apple , were filed Toronto, Ontario, Canada August , and September , , respectively. Both actions define the class national class consisting all persons Canada who have purchased who own iPod. motion for certification the class proceeding has been scheduled for the Spring . Davis . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court December , , alleging that the Company engaged unfair and deceptive business practices relating its AppleCare Extended Service and Warranty Plan. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation the California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition) and § (false advertising), breach the Song-Beverly Warranty Act, intentional misrepresentation and concealment. Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed demurrer and motion strike which were granted, part, and Plaintiff filed amended complaint. The Company filed answer April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Plaintiff subsequently amended its complaint. October , , the Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\x92 counsel his role counsel the purported class and the general public. The Court granted the motion but allowed Plaintiff retain substitute counsel. Plaintiff did engage new counsel for the general public, but not for the class. The Company moved disqualify Plaintiff\x92 new counsel and have the Court dismiss the general public claims for equitable relief. The Court declined disqualify Plaintiff\x92 new counsel dismiss the equitable claims, but did confirm that the class action claims are dismissed. The Company appealed the ruling and the case was stayed pending the outcome the appeal. The Court Appeal denied the appeal SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' August , , affirming the trial court\x92 decision. The Company filed Petition for review with the California Supreme Court which was denied November , . European Commission Investigation The European Commission has notified the Company that investigating certain matters relating the iTunes Music Store the European Union ( ). The European Commission investigating claims made Which?, United Kingdom ( ) consumer association, that the Company violating competition law charging more for online music the than Eurozone countries and preventing consumers from purchasing online music from the iTunes Music Store for Eurozone countries. The Which? claims were originally lodged with the Office Fair Trading, which subsequently referred them the European Commission. The European Commission investigating the charges under Articles and the European Commission Treaty. Gobeli Research Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff Gobeli Research Ltd. filed this patent infringement action against the Company and Sun Microsystems, Inc. April , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . patent , , related \x93System and Method Controlling Interrupt Processing.\x94 Plaintiff alleges that the Company\x92 Mac and Mac operating systems infringe Plaintiff\x92 patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer June , , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment non-infringement and invalidity. Markman hearing took place August , , and the Court issued ruling August , invalidating one Plantiff\x92 two claims. October , , Stipulation entered into the parties was filed removing Mac from the case. The trial scheduled for February , . Goldberg, . . Apple Computer, Inc., . ( . \x93Dan . Apple Computer, Inc.\x94) Plaintiffs filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles County Superior Court against the Company and other members the computer industry behalf alleged nationwide class purchasers certain computer hard drives. The case alleges violations California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and false advertising related the size the drives. Plaintiffs allege that calculation hard drive size using the decimal method misrepresents the actual size the drive. The complaint seeks restitution and other relief. Plaintiff filed amended complaint March , and the Company filed answer September , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Defendants filed motion strike portions the complaint based sales resellers and filed motion for judgment the pleadings based upon Proposition . The Court granted both motions hearing April , . Plaintiff filed amended complaint May , . The Defendants filed demurrer June , , which was heard August , . The Court granted the demurrer part and denied part. Plaintiff filed amended complaint. The Company\x92 response not yet due. Honeywell International, Inc., . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs Honeywell International, Inc. and Honeywell Intellectual Properties, Inc. filed this action October , the United States District Court Delaware alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . patent , , entitled \x93Directional Diffuser for Liquid Crystal Display.\x94 Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer December , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has tendered the case several suppliers. May , the Court stayed the case against the Company and the other supplier defendants. Plantiffs filed amended complaint November , adding additional defendants and expanding the scope the accused products. Given the stay, the Company\x92 response the amended complaint not yet due. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' MacTech Systems . Apple Computer, Inc.; Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Computer International, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Elite Computers and Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; The Neighborhood Computer Store . Apple Computer, Inc. MacAccessory Center, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; MacAccessory Center, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. (all Santa Clara County Superior Court) Six resellers have filed similar lawsuits against the Company for various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the Computer International complaint November , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company filed answer the Macadam case December , denying all allegations and asserting numerous defenses. Three the other plaintiffs filed amended complaints February , , and March , the Company filed answers these claims denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. sixth Plaintiff, MacAccessory Center, filed complaint February , . The Company filed answer this complaint April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. These cases are discovery. October , , one the reseller Plaintiffs, Macadam, was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order reinstate reseller, which the Court denied. The Court denied Macadam\x92 motion for preliminary injunction December , . December , Macadam filed for Chapter Bankruptcy the Northern District California, which placed stay the litigation Macadam only. The Company filed claim the bankruptcy proceedings February , . The Company took Macadam\x92 debtor examination April . The Company, joined another creditor Macadam, filed motion convert the bankruptcy Chapter (liquidation) April , and that motion was granted. Plantiffs\x92 counsel four the six other reseller cases, was recently appointed litigation counsel for the Macadam Estate the bankruptcy court. The Company has moved for reconsideration that decision. Premier International Associates LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Premier International Associates LLC (Premier) filed this action November , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patents , , and , , both entitled \x93List Building System.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company\x92 response not yet due. Slattery . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music purchased the iTunes Music Store with the purchase iPods and vice versa and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. Plaintiff\x92 complaint alleged violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business and Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition), common law unjust enrichment and common law monopolization. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss February , . September , , the Court denied the motion part and granted part. Plaintiff filed amended complaint September , and the Company filed answer October , . The case discovery. Stamm . Apple Computer, Inc Allen . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Stamm filed purported class action November , Circuit Court, Cook County, Illinois alleging that defect Apple\x92 -inch Studio Display monitors results dimming half the screen and constant blinking the power light. The Company removed the case Federal Court December , . The Court remanded State Court March , Plaintiff\x92 motion. The Company had filed motion dismiss January , which was taken off calendar due the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' remand. January , second plaintiff, Allen, filed purported nationwide class action Los Angeles Superior Court alleging identical claims. Plaintiff Stamm dismissed the Stamm case September , . amended complaint the Allen case was filed October , , adding additional named plaintiffs and expanding the alleged class include purchasers the -inch Apple Cinema Display and the -inch Apple Cinema Display. The amended complaint alleges that the displays have purported defect that causes dimming one-half the screen, and that the Company misrepresented the quality the displays and concealed the purported defect. Plaintiffs assert claims under California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition); California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising) and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act. The amended complaint seeks remedies including damages and equitable relief. November , , the Company filed answer the amended complaint the allegations regarding the -inch display and demurrer motion strike the allegations regarding the -inch and -inch displays the ground that plaintiffs failed allege that they purchased those displays. status conference November , , the Court ordered Plantiffs amend their complaint. The Company\x92 demurrer off calendar pending this amendment. -Germain . Apple Canada, Inc. Plaintiff filed this case Montreal, Quebec, Canada, August , , seeking authorization institute class action for the refund the Company the Canadian Private Copying Levy that was applied the iPod purchase price Quebec between December , and December , but later declared invalid the Canadian Court. class certification hearing scheduled for January , . The Company has already begun refund program for this levy. Teleshuttle Technologies, LLC and BTG International Inc. . Microsoft and Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this case July , United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging infringement . patent , , , entitled \x93Method and System for Distributing Updates Presenting Directory Software Available for User Installation That Not Already Installed User Station.\x94 Plaintiffs filed amended complaint September , , adding second patent, . patent , , entitled \x93Method and System for Selecting Personalized Set Information Channels.\x94 Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. August , , the Company filed amended answer add charges inequitable conduct. The case discovery. Markman briefing completed. technology tutorial and Markman hearing are tentatively scheduled for January , , and , . Tiger Direct, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Tiger Direct, Inc. filed this trademark infringement action the United States District Court for the Southern District Florida April , alleging infringement the word mark TIGER. Plaintiff claims have valid registration the mark TIGER and alleges that the Company\x92 use TIGER reference the latest version Mac infringes the mark allegedly owned Plaintiff. Plaintiff attempted obtain parte preliminary injunction barring the Company\x92 use the TIGER mark April , but the motion was denied. Plaintiff served the Company April , and again moved for preliminary injunction. Plaintiff\x92 motion was heard May , . May , , the Court denied Plaintiff\x92 motion. The Company filed response the complaint May , , denying all material allegations and asserting counterclaims for cancellation certain marks registered Tiger Direct. June , , Plaintiff filed appeal, but subsequently withdrew . Plaintiff filed response the Company\x92 counterclaims. The parties have reached settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operation. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Tse . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiff Keung Tse filed this action against the Company and other defendants August , the United States District Court for the District Maryland alleging infringement the Company . Patent , , entitled \x93Protection Software Again [sic] Against Unauthorized Use.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. October , , the Company and the other defendants filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California. Wimmer . Apple Computer, Inc. (originally filed Tomczak . Apple Computer, Inc. October , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division; amended complaint filed October , ); Moschella, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division); Calado, . . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , , Los Angeles County Superior Court); Kahan, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , , United States District Court for the Southern District New York); Jennings, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed November , , United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division). These federal and state court complaints allege that the Company\x92 iPod nano was defectively designed that scratches excessively during normal use which renders the screen unreadable. The Wimmer and Moschella actions were brought behalf purported nationwide classes iPod nano purchasers, with the exception California purchasers, and allege violations the consumer protection, express and implied warranty statutes each state covered the putative class definition, well negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment under the common laws these jurisdictions. The Calado action was brought behalf purported California class iPod nano purchasers and asserts claims for alleged violation California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, breaches express and implied warranties, negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment. The Jennings action was filed behalf purported class all iPod nano purchasers outside the United States, based upon alleged violations the same California statutes the Calado complaint. The Kahan action was brought behalf purported New York class iPod nano purchasers and alleges claims under the New York unfair competition law, breach express warranty and unjust enrichment. The complaints seek damages and various other remedies. The Company\x92 responses these complaints are not yet due. Two similar complaints, Carpentier . Apple Canada, Inc. , and Royer- Brennan . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc. were filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada, October , and November , , respectively, seeking authorization institute class action behalf iPod nano purchasers Quebec. Union Federale des Consummateurs\x97Que Choisir . Apple Computer France . and iTunes . Plaintiff, consumer association France, filed this complaint February , alleging that the entities above are violating consumer law ) omitting mention that the iPod allegedly not compatible with music from online music services other than the iTunes Music Store and that the music from the iTunes Music Store only compatible with the iPod and ) allegedly tying the sales iPods the iTunes Music Store and vice versa. Plaintiff seeks damages, injunctive relief and other relief. The first hearing the case took place May , . The Company\x92 response the complaint was served November , . ", 'item 4. ': "Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\x92 fiscal year ended September , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33415323919_D11492_688039\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' PART ", 'item 5. ': "Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities ( ) Stock Market Information The Company\x92 common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol AAPL and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , the Company delisted its shares from trading the Tokyo Stock Exchange. November , , there were , shareholders record. The Company did not pay cash dividends either . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ National Market during each quarter. February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ ( ) Related Shareholder Matters None. ( ) Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ , $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net gains before taxes related the Company\x92 non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. net loss before taxes related the Company\x92 non-current debt and equity investments $ million was recognized . , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. , settlement the Company\x92 forward stock purchase agreement resulted gain $ million. Net income during benefited $ million from the reversal certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets, including reductions valuation allowances. Favorable cumulative-effect type adjustments from the adoption new accounting standards, net taxes, $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. ', 'item 7. ': "Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled \x93Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition\x94 below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' calendar. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows. The Company\x92 products and services include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the iPod digital music player, the Xserve server and Xserve RAID storage products, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, the iTunes Music Store, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, and variety other service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh compatible products, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital camcorders and still cameras, personal digital assistants, and various other computing products and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. further description the Company\x92 products may found Part , Item this document under the heading \x93Business.\x94 The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware, and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers around the world compelling new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Macintosh line computers, consumer electronics with its iPod line digital music players, and distribution third-party digital content through its online iTunes Music Store. While the Company widely recognized innovator the personal computer and consumer electronic markets well leader the emerging market for distribution digital content, these are all highly competitive markets that are subject aggressive pricing and increased competition. remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment research and development ( & ) and marketing and advertising necessary maintain and extend its position the markets where competes. The Company\x92 & spending focused delivering timely updates and enhancements its existing line personal computers, displays, operating systems, software applications, and portable music players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas such rack-mount servers, RAID storage systems, and wireless technologies. The Company also believes investment marketing and advertising programs critical increasing product and brand awareness. June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its Macintosh computers. The Company plans begin shipping certain models with Intel microprocessors June and complete the transition all its Macintosh computers Intel microprocessors the end calendar year . There are potential risks and uncertainties that may occur during this transition, which are further discussed under the heading \x93Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition.\x94 The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available only Macintosh computers, and demonstrate the compatibility the Macintosh with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes that providing SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting and retaining customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company has expanded and improved its distribution capabilities opening its own retail stores the . and internationally. The Company had stores open September , . The Company also staffs selected third-party stores with the Company\x92 own employees improve the buying experience through reseller channels. The Company has deployed Apple employees and contractors reseller locations around the world including the ., Europe, Japan, and Australia. The Company also sells customers directly through its online stores around the world. improve access the iPod product line, the Company has significantly expanded the number distribution points where iPods are sold. The iPod product line can purchased certain department stores, member-only warehouse stores, large retail chains, and specialty retail stores, well through the channels listed above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, and income taxes. Management believes these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, peripherals, digital content, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed the relevant program. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 results operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\x92 direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\x92 assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible . The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\x92 distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\x92 financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer and consumer electronic industries are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are recorded. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Warranty Costs The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\x92 results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company currently evaluating the repatriation provisions the American Jobs Creation Act , which, implemented the Company, would affect the Company\x92 tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. Similarly, the Company subsequently realizes deferred tax assets that were previously determined unrealizable, the respective valuation allowance would reversed, resulting positive adjustment earnings decrease goodwill the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334125947379_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and unit sales thousands): September , Change September , Change September , Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales % ( )% Retail net sales , % , % Other Segments net sales ( ) % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Europe Macintosh unit sales , % % Japan Macintosh unit sales % ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales % % Other Segments Macintosh unit sales ( ) % % Total Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Net Sales Product: Desktops ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Macintosh net sales , % , % , iPod , % , % Other music related products and services ( ) % % Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , % % Software, service, and other sales ( ) , % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Desktops ( ) , % , ( )% , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , ( )% $ , % $ , iPod unit sales , % , % Net sales per iPod unit sold ( ) $ ( )% $ ( )% $ Notes: ( ) Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Power Mac and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes iBook and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Music Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. ( ) Derived dividing total Macintosh net sales total Macintosh unit sales. ( ) Derived dividing total iPod net sales total iPod unit sales. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Fiscal Year versus During , net sales increased % $ billion from . Several factors contributed favorably net sales during : · Net sales iPods rose $ billion % during compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million , which represents increase % from the million iPod units sold . Strong sales iPods during continued experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments and was driven strong demand for the iPod shuffle introduced January , the release updated version the iPod mini February , the release the iPod nano September , and expansion the iPod\x92 distribution network . Net sales per iPod unit sold decreased % primarily due the introduction the lower priced iPod shuffle January and iPod mini pricing reductions February . From the introduction the iPod through , the Company has sold approximately million iPods. · Other music related products and services consists sales associated with the iTunes Music Store and iPod services and accessories. Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The Company has experienced strong growth sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase overall iPod unit sales for . The increased sales from the iTunes Music Store primarily due substantial growth net sales the . and expansion Europe, Canada, and Japan. · Total Macintosh net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Unit sales Macintosh systems increased million units % during compared . The increases Macintosh net sales and unit sales relate primarily strong demand for the Company\x92 desktop products, which was experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments. The Company believes that the success the iPod having positive impact Macintosh net sales introducing new customers the Company\x92 other products. Desktop demand was stimulated due the new iMac and the introduction the Mac mini January . Net sales and unit sales desktop products increased % and %, respectively, during compared . Macintosh net sales and unit sales also include sales the Company\x92 portable products, which increased % and %, respectively, compared . Net sales per Macintosh unit sold decreased % year-over-year basis. The decrease was the result changes the overall unit mix towards relatively lower-priced consumer products, specifically the impact the Mac mini product, and desktop and portable price reductions. This decrease was partially offset increase the proportion direct sales. · The Retail segment\x92 net sales grew % $ billion during compared . This increase largely attributable the increase total stores from the end the end , well % year-over-year increase average revenue per store. While the Company\x92 customers areas where the Retail segment has opened stores may elect purchase from the Retail segment stores rather than the Company\x92 preexisting sales channels the ., Canada, Japan, and the ., the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\x92 net sales incremental the Company\x92 total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance.\x94 · Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose % during compared primarily due increase net sales displays and other computer accessories. Net sales other hardware include AirPort cards and base stations, Xserve RAID storage, iSight digital video cameras, and third-party hardware products. · The Company\x92 . education channel experienced year-over-year growth both net sales and unit sales approximately % for . The increase . education net sales for relates SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' primarily % year-over-year increase higher education net sales due increased iMac shipments, portable system shipments, and online sales. The Company also experienced % growth - net sales due increased iBook sales and education : sales. While net sales the - market were slightly higher during than , the Company believes this market continues subject budget constraints and competitive pressures. · Net sales software, service and other sales rose $ million % during compared . This growth was primarily attributable increased net sales AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) extended service and support contracts, driven primarily higher associated Macintosh computer sales. Additionally, the Company experienced increases net sales Mac Internet service, professional and consumer applications, third-party software, and Mac that was primarily attributable the release version Tiger April . Fiscal Year versus During , net sales increased % $ billion from . Several factors contributed favorably net sales during : · Net sales Macintosh systems increased $ million % during compared while net sales per Macintosh unit sold remained relatively flat year-over-year basis. Unit sales Macintosh systems increased , units % during compared . These increases net sales and unit sales were result strong demand for all the Company\x92 Macintosh systems, except the iMac. The Company\x92 portable systems, consisting the PowerBook and iBook, produced the strongest revenue and unit growth during compared approximately % and %, respectively. Unit sales portable systems accounted for % all Macintosh systems sold during compared only % during . The Company believes that these results reflected overall trend the industry towards portable systems. Performance the Company\x92 Power Macintosh systems also yielded positive results over , including % and % increase net sales and unit sales, respectively. The increase Power Macintosh sales was due primarily the introduction the Power Mac , which began shipping the end . Although Power Macintosh sales increased from , sales this product were constrained the second half result manufacturing problems IBM, the Company\x92 sole supplier the PowerPC processor. · Net sales iPods rose $ million % during compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million , which represents increase % from the , iPod units sold . Strong demand for the iPods during were experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments and was driven enhancements the iPod, the introduction the iPod mini, increased expansion the Company\x92 iPod distribution network, and continued success the iTunes Music Store due largely making available both Macintosh and Windows users the ., ., France, and Germany. · The Retail segment\x92 net sales grew % $ billion during compared . This increase was largely attributable the increase total stores from the end the end , well % year-over-year increase average revenue per store. While the Company\x92 customers areas where the Retail segment has opened stores may have elected purchase from the Retail segment stores rather than the Company\x92 preexisting sales channels the . and Japan, the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\x92 net sales incremental the Company\x92 total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance.\x94 · Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose % during compared primarily due increase net sales displays and other computer accessories. Net sales other SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' computer accessories include AirPort cards and base stations, iSight digital video cameras, and third-party hardware products. The increase total net sales peripherals and other hardware was related the overall increase Macintosh unit sales and the introduction new and updated peripheral products and was experienced predominantly the Company\x92 Americas, Europe, and Retail segments. · Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The Company experienced strong growth sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase overall iPod unit sales for . The increased sales from the iTunes Music Store, which was originally introduced April , was primarily due making the service available for Windows October and the introduction the service the ., France, and Germany June . · Net sales software rose $ million % during compared due primarily higher net sales the Company\x92 Apple-branded software and particular, higher net sales the Company\x92 operating system software, including Mac version \x93Panther,\x94 which was released October . Net sales Panther accounted for approximately $ million over % the increase software net sales for compared . · The Company\x92 . education channel experienced year-over-year growth net sales approximately % for compared . Unit sales also increased % during compared . The increase . education net sales for related primarily % year-over-year increase higher education net sales and lesser extent the Company\x92 % growth - net sales. · Service and other sales increased $ million % during compared . These increases were the result significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with APP extended maintenance and support services, well increased net sales associated with the Company\x92 Mac Internet service. Increased net sales associated with APP were primarily the result higher Macintosh unit sales and higher attach rates APP over the last several years. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\x92 net sales during were negatively impacted the following: · Net sales and unit sales iMac systems were down % and %, respectively, during versus . The decrease iMac net sales and unit sales was largely due the delay the introduction the new iMac, based the PowerPC processor, primarily result manufacturing problems experienced IBM. The delays the new iMac resulted the depletion inventory the old iMac flat panel prior availability the new iMac . The old flat panel iMac form factor, which was available during most , was nearly years old the time the new iMac began shipping September and had experienced declines sales result the age this product. The Company believes that sales iMac systems have also declined due shift consumer preference portable systems and desktop models from competitors with price points below $ , . · Net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Japan segment decreased % and %, respectively, during versus . The Company believes these declines related shift sales from the Japan segment the Retail segment result the Tokyo and Osaka store openings . Declines net sales Japan may have also related delays computer upgrades certain professional and creative customers pending release Japan certain Mac native applications, such Quark Xpress , which did not become available until September . When sales from the Japan retail stores are included the results for the Japan segment, the combined revenue Japan resulted % year-over-year increase compared . See SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' additional comments below related the Japan segment under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance.\x94 Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operated Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . during . Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Americas During , net sales the Americas segment grew % $ billion compared . The increase net sales during was primarily attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPod sales, sales other music related products and services, and strong sales desktop and portable Macintosh systems. This increase was partially offset shift sales the Retail segment, which had stores the . and Canada the end . Macintosh unit sales also increased % compared , driven primarily strong sales desktop systems largely attributable strong sales from the new iMac, which began shipping September , and the Mac mini, which was introduced January . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\x92 total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. noted above, the Company experienced increase both . education channel net sales and unit sales % for compared . Strength higher education sales related primarily strong iMac shipments, portable system shipments, and online sales. This strength drove year-over-year growth net sales % for the higher education channel during . Despite challenges the - market from continued budget constraints and competitive pressures, the Company\x92 - net sales grew year-over-year % during due increased iBook sales and : education sales. During , net sales the Americas segment grew % $ million compared . The increase net sales during was primarily attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPod sales well strong sales peripherals, software, and services. This increase was partially offset shift sales the Retail segment, which had stores the . the end . Macintosh unit sales also increased % compared , driven primarily strong sales portable and Power Macintosh systems, partially offset weakness iMac sales. During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\x92 total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. The Company experienced increase . education channel net sales % for compared . Strong . education net sales for related primarily strength higher education net sales that resulted from successful back- -school selling season with strong demand for the Company\x92 portables. This strength drove year-over-year growth net sales % for the higher education channel during . The Company\x92 - net sales grew year-over-year % during , despite the challenges the - market from continued budget constraints and increased competition. Europe During , net sales the Europe segment grew $ billion % from . Total Macintosh unit sales Europe also experienced growth during the current year increasing % compared SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' . Consistent with the Americas segment, Europe experienced strong net sales desktop products, iPod, other music related products and services, and software and service sales. Demand Europe during was particularly strong for the Company\x92 desktop computers, which experienced year-over-year increase %. Similar the results the Company\x92 other segments, net sales iPods, peripherals and software were strong . Net sales Europe rebounded increasing $ million % from . Total Macintosh unit sales Europe also experienced growth increasing % compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, Europe experienced strong net sales across all product lines, except the iMac systems. Demand Europe during was particularly strong for the Company\x92 Power Macintosh systems and portable Macintosh systems, which experienced year-over-year increases % and %, respectively. Similar the results the Company\x92 other segments, net sales iPods, peripherals and software were strong over . Japan Japan\x92 net sales and Macintosh unit sales were % and %, respectively, during compared . Japan experienced increased net sales desktop products, iPod, and other music related products and services. Desktop net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, and iPod sales increased % during compared . The overall increase net sales was partially offset decline portable system net sales during compared , which the Company believes might attributable shift sales from portables the new iMac and Mac mini, and shift the Retail segment result opening two additional stores Japan during . Japan\x92 net sales and Macintosh unit sales were down % and %, respectively, during compared , which lagged behind all the Company\x92 other operating segments. These decreases net sales and unit sales were believed attributable part shift sales from the Japan segment the Retail segment result the opening two stores Japan . addition, such decreases may have been related delayed computer system upgrades some professional and creative customers who were awaiting the release Quark XPress for Mac , which did not occur until September . The decrease net sales was partially offset strong iPod and iBook sales during compared . Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , including international stores the , Japan, and Canada, bringing the total number open stores September , . This compares open stores September , and open stores September , . Net sales the Retail segment grew $ billion during from $ billion and $ million and , respectively. The increases net sales during both and reflect the impact new store openings for each year, including the opening new stores and new stores . increase average revenue per store also contributed the segment\x92 strong sales . With average stores open during , the Retail segment achieved annualized revenue per store approximately $ million, compared $ million with store average, and $ million with store average. measured the Company\x92 operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported operating income $ million during compared operating income $ million during and operating loss $ million during . This improvement primarily attributable the segment\x92 year-over-year increase average revenue per store, the impact opening new stores, and the segment\x92 year-over-year increase net sales, which resulted higher leverage occupancy, depreciation, and other fixed costs. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment were $ million , bringing the total capital expenditures since inception the Retail segment approximately $ million. September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities approximately $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Gross Margin Gross margin for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): September , September , September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % Gross margin increased % net sales from % net sales . The Company\x92 gross margin during increased due more favorable pricing certain commodity components including LCD flat-panel displays and DRAM memory; increase higher margin software sales; favorable shift direct sales related primarily the Company\x92 Retail and online stores; and higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage fixed production costs. These increases gross margin were partially offset increase lower margin iPod sales. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer and consumer electronics industries will remain under pressure light price competition, especially for the iPod product line. The Company expects gross margin percentage decline the first quarter primarily result shift the mix revenue toward lower margin products such the iPod and content from the iTunes Music Store. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin are forward-looking. There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained targeted gross margin levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products, including iPods, will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\x92 product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413047336_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin declined % net sales from % net sales . The Company\x92 gross margin during declined due increase mix towards lower margin iPod and iBook sales, pricing actions certain Power Macintosh models that were transitioned during the beginning , higher warranty costs certain portable Macintosh products, and higher freight and duty costs during . These unfavorable factors were partially offset increase direct sales and % year-over-year increase higher margin software sales. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except for percentages): September , September , September , Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ \x97 $ $ Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. The Company has historically relied upon innovation remain competitive. & expense amounted approximately % total net sales during down from % and % total net sales and , respectively. This decrease due the significant increase % total net sales the Company for . Although & expense decreased percentage total net sales , actual expense for & increased $ million % from , which follows $ million % increase compared . The overall increase & expense relates primarily increased headcount and support for new product development activities and the impact employee salary increases . & expense does not include capitalized software development costs approximately $ million related the development Mac Tiger during ; $ million related the development Mac Tiger and $ million related the development FileMaker Pro ; and $ million related the development Mac Panther . Further information related the Company\x92 capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases are due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, current year increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, and higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' merit increases. & percentage total net sales was %, down from % , which due the increase total net sales % for the Company during . Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases were due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, increase amortization costs associated with restricted stock compensation, and higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary merit increases. & percentage total net sales was %, down from % due the increase total net sales for the Company % during . Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations conjunction with the vacating leased sales facility Europe during the fourth quarter related European workforce reduction. the $ million charge, $ million had been utilized the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. These actions will result the termination employees, which had been terminated prior the end . Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations primarily related the closure the Company\x92 Singapore manufacturing operations during the first quarter . the $ million charge, all had been utilized the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. These actions resulted the termination employees. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions): September , September , September , Gains non-current investments, net $ \x97 $ $ Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense \x97 ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments, net \x97 Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Interest and Other Income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ Gains and Losses Non-current Investments The Company previously held significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). Company sold all the remaining holdings these non-current investments and . Pretax gains recorded upon the sale these non-current investments were $ million and $ million and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Interest and Other Income, Net Total interest and other income, net increased $ million % $ million during compared $ million and $ million . These increases are attributable primarily increasing investment yields the Company\x92 cash and short-term investments and higher invested balances. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased % compared the % and % rates earned during and , respectively. The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net losses $ , and net gains $ million and $ million during and , respectively. Partially offsetting the increase other income were higher foreign currency hedging expenses. Interest expense consisted primarily interest the Company\x92 $ million aggregate principal amount unsecured notes, which were repaid upon their maturity February . The unsecured notes were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. Total deferred gain resulting from the closure debt swaps approximately $ million was fully amortized the notes\x92 maturity February . Provision for Income Taxes The Company\x92 effective tax rate for the year ended September , was approximately %. The Company\x92 effective rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the ., research and development tax credits, and reduction certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets. The benefit from adjustments tax contingency reserves and net deferred tax assets was $ million. addition, the Company recorded $ million reduction the valuation allowance associated with deferred tax assets that, management\x92 opinion, are now more likely than not realized the future. $ million the valuation allowance reduction was recorded credit income tax expense, and the remainder was recorded credit goodwill. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\x92 balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. September , and September , , valuation allowance $ million and $ million, respectively, was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax loss carryforwards that may not realized. The remaining valuation allowance September , relates principally certain state operating loss carryforwards. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. October , , the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA) was signed into law. The AJCA includes provision for the deduction % certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, defined the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' AJCA. The legislation provided the Company with the option apply this provision repatriations qualifying earnings either . The Company continuing evaluate the effects the repatriation provision and expects complete the evaluation . maximum $ million may eligible for repatriation under the reduced tax rate provided AJCA. However, given the uncertainties and complexities the repatriation provision and the Company\x92 continuing evaluation, the Company has not yet determined the amount that may repatriated the related potential income tax effects such repatriation. Recent Accounting Pronouncements November , the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Nos. FAS - and FAS - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application Certain Investments . FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - amend SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities, SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Held Not-for-Profit Organizations, well APB Opinion . , The Equity Method Accounting for Investments Common Stock. This guidance nullifies certain requirements EITF - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application Certain Investments . FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - include guidance for evaluating and recording impairment losses debt and equity investments, well new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed temporarily impaired. FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - also require other-than-temporary impaired debt securities written down its impaired value, which becomes the new cost basis. FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - are effective for fiscal years beginning after December , . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application FSP Nos. FAS - and FAS - , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. November , the FASB issued SFAS . , Inventory Costs , which amends the guidance Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) . , Chapter , Inventory Pricing , clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). ARB , Chapter , previously stated that \x93under some circumstances, items such idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs may abnormal require treatment current period charges.\x94 SFAS requires that those items recognized current-period charges regardless whether they meet the criterion \x93 abnormal.\x94 addition, SFAS requires that allocation fixed production overhead the costs conversion based the normal capacity the production facilities. SFAS effective for fiscal years beginning after June , . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. December , the FASB issued FSP - , Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act . FSP - provides additional time companies beyond the financial reporting period enactment evaluate the effects the AJCA their plans for repatriation foreign earnings for purposes applying SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes . The Company currently evaluating the repatriation provisions AJCA, which implemented the Company would affect the Company\x92 tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities. However, given the uncertainties and complexities the repatriation provision and the Company\x92 continuing evaluation, not possible this time determine the amount, any, that will repatriated the related potential income tax effects such repatriation. The Company expects complete the evaluation . December , the FASB issued SFAS . (revised ) (SFAS . 123R), Share-Based Payment , that addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' equity instruments. SFAS . 123R eliminates the ability account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and instead requires such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. The Company will recognize stock-based compensation expense all awards straight-line basis over the requisite service period using the modified prospective method. January , the SEC issued SAB . , which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS . 123R. SFAS . 123R will effective for the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . The Company expects the adoption SFAS . 123R will result reduction diluted earnings per common share approximately $ for the first quarter fiscal . March , the FASB issued Interpretation . (FIN) , Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, clarify the requirement record liabilities stemming from legal obligation perform asset retirement activity which the timing method settlement conditional future event. The Company plans adopt FIN the first quarter fiscal , and does not expect the application FIN have material impact its results operations, cash flows financial position. May , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting Changes and Error Corrections which replaces APB Opinion . Accounting Changes and SFAS . , Reporting Accounting Changes Interim Financial Statements\x97 Amendment APB Opinion . . SFAS . requires retrospective application prior periods\x92 financial statements voluntary change accounting principal unless not practicable. SFAS . effective for accounting changes and corrections errors made fiscal years beginning after December , and required adopted the Company the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): September , September , September , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable (DSO) ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Days payables outstanding (DPO) ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ , $ $ ( ) DSO based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Days supply inventory based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. ( ) DPO based ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost sales adjusted for the change inventory. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ billion over the same balances the end . The principal components this increase were \xadcash generated operating activities $ billion and proceeds $ million from the issuance common stock under stock plans, partially offset cash used SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' purchase property, plant, and equipment $ million. The Company\x92 short-term investment portfolio primarily invested high credit quality, liquid investments. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company currently assessing the impact the one-time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted part the American Jobs Creation Act , and may decide repatriate earnings from some its foreign subsidiaries. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Capital Expenditures The Company\x92 total capital expenditures were $ million during , $ million which were for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\x92 Retail segment and $ million which were primarily for corporate infrastructure, including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\x92 Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock during . The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Company\x92 balance sheet current liabilities ( millions): Total Payments Due Less Than year Payments Due - years Payments Due - years Payments Due More Than years Operating Leases $ $ $ $ $ Purchase Obligations , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset Retirement Obligations \x97 Other Obligations \x97 \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ , $ $ $ Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases approximately $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Lease terms the Company\x92 existing major facility operating leases range from years. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ billion. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these agreements, the Company intends prepay total $ billion for flash memory components the end the second quarter . Asset Retirement Obligations The Company\x92 asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. September , , the Company estimates that gross expected future cash flows approximately $ million will required fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations The Company\x92 other obligations approximately $ million are primarily related Internet and telecommunications services. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the demand for the Company\x92 products and the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company\x92 operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions the . and abroad. times the past, demand for the Company\x92 products has been negatively impacted difficult global economic conditions. Additionally, some the Company\x92 education customers appeared delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy and state budget deficits their available funding. Although recent macroeconomic trends seem indicate economic recovery, continued uncertainty about future economic conditions makes difficult forecast future demand for the Company\x92 products and related operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company\x92 products could adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism, public health issues other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery demand products, which could negatively affect the Company\x92 operations and performance. War, terrorism, public health issues and other business interruptions whether the . abroad, have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce creating economic and political uncertainties that may have strong negative impact the global economy, the Company, and the Company\x92 suppliers customers. The Company\x92 major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, other natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\x92 research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Although impossible predict the occurrences consequences any such events, such events could result decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company deliver products its customers receive components from its suppliers, and could create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. addition, should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could negatively impacted the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations the availability freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between various regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition have been, and the future may , adversely affected these events. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services, well digital music devices and related services, highly competitive. the Company unable effectively compete these markets, its results operations could adversely affected. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense competitors who sell Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for personal computing products. The Company\x92 results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\x92 key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several the Company\x92 competitors have introduced announced plans introduce digital music products and online stores offering digital music distribution that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\x92 products. The Company has significant number competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\x92 markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing other competing operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. Additionally, unauthorized copies the Mac are used other companies\x92 hardware products and result decreased demand for the Company\x92 hardware products, the Company\x92 results operations may adversely affected. The Company currently focused market opportunities related digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces increasing competition from other companies promoting their own digital music products, including music enabled cell phones, distribution services, and free peer- -peer music services. These competitors include both new entrants with different market approaches, such subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have greater technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than those the Company, well established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships. Failure effectively compete could negatively affect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. There can assurance that the Company will able continue provide products and services that effectively compete these markets successfully distribute and sell digital music outside the . The Company may also have respond price competition lowering prices and increasing features which could adversely affect the Company\x92 music product gross margins well overall Company gross margins. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company also faces increased competition the . education market. . elementary and secondary schools, well college and university customers, remain core market for the Company. Uncertainty this channel remains several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers, which could negatively affect the Company\x92 market share. effort regain market share and remain competitive, the Company has been and will continue pursue one- -one ( : ) learning solutions education. : learning solutions typically consist iBook portable systems for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server. These : learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result significantly less profitability even financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase maintain its share the education market execute profitably large strategic arrangements. Failure may have adverse impact the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition. The Company\x92 transition from PowerPC microprocessors used Macintosh computers microprocessors built Intel subject numerous risks. June , the Company announced its intention transition from the use PowerPC microprocessors the use Intel microprocessors all its Macintosh computers the end calendar year . This transition subject numerous risks and uncertainties, including the Company\x92 ability timely develop and deliver new products using Intel microprocessors, the timely innovation and delivery related hardware and software products, including the Company\x92 applications, support Intel microprocessors, market acceptance Intel-based Macintosh computers, the development and availability acceptable terms components and services essential enable the Company timely deliver Intel-based Macintosh computers, and the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand for both PowerPC and Intel-based Macintosh computers. addition, the Company dependent third-party software developers such Microsoft and Adobe continuing support current applications that run PowerPC-based computers and timely developing versions current and future applications that run Intel and PowerPC-based Macintosh computers. The Company\x92 inability timely deliver new Intel-based products obtain developer commitment both continue supporting applications that run PowerPC microprocessors and timely transition their applications run natively Intel-based products may have adverse impact the Company\x92 results operations. The Company\x92 announcement its intention transition Intel microprocessors may negatively impact sales current and future Macintosh products containing PowerPC microprocessors, customers may elect delay purchases until the Intel-based products are available. Additionally, there can assurance that the Company will able maintain its historical gross margin percentages its products, including Intel-based Macintosh computers, which may adversely impact the Company\x92 results operations. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\x92 ability obtain sufficient supply components, including microprocessors, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, NAND flash-memory, and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\x92 yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\x92 ability produce and market competitive products dependent the ability and desire IBM and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (Freescale) supply PowerPC microprocessors and Intel supply its microprocessors for the Company\x92 Macintosh computers and provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\x92 competitors. While the Company has supply agreements with IBM and Freescale, the Company\x92 recent announcement plans transition Intel microprocessors may impact the continued availability acceptable terms certain components and services, including PowerPC and microprocessors, which are essential the Company\x92 business and are currently obtained the Company from sole limited sources. Additionally, there have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\x92 suppliers provide advanced PowerPC microprocessors sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\x92 results operations. addition, IBM currently the Company\x92 sole supplier the PowerPC processor, which used the Company\x92 current Power Mac, Xserve, and iMac products. Freescale the sole supplier the processor, which used the Company\x92 eMac, Mac mini, and portable products. IBM experienced manufacturing problems with the PowerPC processor, which resulted the Company delaying the shipment various products and constrained certain product shipments during the second half and the first quarter . Manufacturing problems experienced any the Company\x92 suppliers the future failure them deliver components the Company sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products order remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions the Company\x92 existing products. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance; the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, including the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, and production ramp issues; the availability application software for new products; the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, including anticipated demand for PowerPC-based and Intel-based Macintosh computers; the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. The Company\x92 products from time time experience quality problems that can result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Failure could result lost revenue, loss reputation, and significant warranty and other expense remedy. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are currently adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer and consumer electronics industries and the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may have, material effect the Company\x92 financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, and because the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Most the Company\x92 products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the cost operations, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured services rendered, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the People\x92 Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacturing many the components used the Company\x92 products performed third-party vendors Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and iPods performed third-party vendors China. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted regional economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues, well information technology system failures military actions, the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3341317410_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company\x92 future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\x92 products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail stores. Many the Company\x92 resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected weak economic conditions over the last several years. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\x92 business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\x92 products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company has invested and will continue invest various programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors. These programs could require substantial investment from the Company, while providing assurance return incremental revenue offset this investment. Over the past several years, increasing proportion the Company\x92 net sales has been made the Company directly end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Some the Company\x92 resellers have perceived this expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their own businesses and economic interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Perception such conflict could discourage the Company\x92 resellers from investing additional resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution the Company\x92 products. The Company\x92 business and financial results could adversely affected expansion its direct sales end-users causes some all its resellers cease limit distribution the Company\x92 products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Markets and Distribution.\x94 The Company relies third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their digital content customers through the Company\x92 iTunes Music Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights offer its customers this third-party digital content. The Company\x92 licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term nature and not guarantee the future renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Certain parties the music industry have consolidated and formed alliances, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required offer digital content customers through the iTunes Music Store. Further, some third-party content providers currently, may the future, offer music products and services that compete with the Company\x92 music products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their digital content the future. the Company unable continue offer wide variety digital content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach outside the ., then sales and gross margins the Company\x92 iTunes Music Store well related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management solutions and other security mechanisms. the requirements from content providers artists change, then the Company may required further develop license technology address such new rights and requirements. There assurance that the Company will able develop license SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner, all, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. The Company\x92 future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed available for the Company\x92 hardware products, then customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\x92 personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\x92 hardware products depends part third-party developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products versus software for the larger Windows market growing Linux market. This analysis may based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such software products. the extent the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market has caused software developers question the Company\x92 prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\x92 products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market growing Linux market. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\x92 operating system, timely basis all. June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its Macintosh computers. The Company plans begin shipping certain models with Intel microprocessors June and complete this transition Intel microprocessors for all its Macintosh computers the end calendar year . The Company depends third-party software developers timely develop current and future applications that run Intel and PowerPC microprocessors. The Company\x92 inability timely deliver new Intel-based products, decline available applications that run the Company\x92 PowerPC products the lack applications that run Intel-based Macintosh systems could have materially adverse effect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers, such Microsoft and Adobe, develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\x92 products. The Company currently markets and sells variety software applications for use professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence the decisions third-party software developers develop upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, professional digital photo editing and workflow management, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, word processing, and high-quality presentations. The Company also markets integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases, and presentations single application. Discontinuance third-party products for the Macintosh platform, including Microsoft Office could have adverse effect the Company\x92 net sales and results operations. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company\x92 business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\x92 future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. Because technological changes the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time-consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through October , the Company had opened retail stores. The Company\x92 retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years, the majority which are for years. The Company could incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\x92 costs are fixed because depreciation store construction costs and lease expense. result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience significant decline sales for any reason. Certain the Company\x92 stores have been designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. The Company has opened seven such stores through October . Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' remaining commitments per location ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\x92 future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\x92 consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations outside the .; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has and may the future invest new business strategies engage acquisitions that complement the Company\x92 strategic direction and product roadmap. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management\x92 attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 business, operating results financial condition. Declines the sales the Company\x92 professional products, software, accessories, service and support contracts, increases sales consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\x92 professional products, including Power Macintosh and PowerBook systems, software, accessories, and service and support contracts, generally have higher gross margins than the Company\x92 consumer products, including iMacs, iBooks, iPods, and content from the iTunes Music Store. shift sales mix away from higher margin professional products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the Company\x92 future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\x92 traditional professional customers may choose buy consumer products, specifically the iMac and iBook, instead professional products. Professional users may choose buy the iMac due its relative price performance, use the same PowerPC processor used the Company\x92 Power Macs, and unique design featuring flat panel screen. Potential PowerBook customers may also choose purchase iBooks instead due their price performance and screen size. Additionally, significant future growth iPod sales without corresponding growth higher margin product sales could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages. likely that some the Company\x92 current and potential professional, creative, and small business customers, who are most likely utilize professional systems, believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors the Company utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other computer manufacturers and translates slower overall system performance. These factors may result adverse impact sales the Company\x92 professional products well gross margin and operating margin percentages. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\x92 profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\x92 direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. Additionally, the Company\x92 direct channels have traditionally had more sales software and higher priced hardware products, which generally have higher gross margins, than its indirect channels. result, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages well overall profitability may adversely impacted result shift product, geographic, channel mix, new product announcements, including the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers. addition, the Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\x92 internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\x92 ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 key logistics, components suppliers, manufacturing partners, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenue, than many its competitors. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technologies the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\x92 Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\x92 brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percentage revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivable and prepayments related long-term supply agreements. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has entered into long-term supply agreements secure supply NAND flash-memory and intends prepay total $ billion under these agreements. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The Company\x92 success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members its executive team, and those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' the Company\x92 key employees are located. The Company has relied its ability grant stock options one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options will impair the Company\x92 future ability provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company subject risks associated with the selection, availability, and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional commercial insurance. Such conditions have and may continue result higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, lower coverage limits and may also yield possible policy form exclusions. For some risks, because cost and availability, the Company does not have insurance coverage. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits may have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. Failure information technology systems and breaches the security data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the Company\x92 future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\x92 ability function the normal course business potentially causing delays cancellation customer orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns for its own systems implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can assurance that system failure data security breach the Company third-party vendor will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\x92 revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\x92 products and the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company modify international pricing and affect the value the Company\x92 foreign denominated sales, and some cases, may also increase the cost the Company some product components. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions have been utilized the Company hedge exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Further information related the Company\x92 global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Foreign Currency Risk\x94 and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan, and certain states within the . the future, these laws could have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations. Changes accounting rules could affect the Company\x92 future operating results. Financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject interpretation various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. change from current accounting standards could have significant effect the Company\x92 results operations. December , the FASB issued new guidance that addresses the accounting for share-based payments, SFAS . 123R. April , the SEC deferred the effective date SFAS . 123R years beginning after June , . Therefore, SFAS . 123R will effective for the Company beginning its first quarter fiscal . The Company expects the adoption SFAS . 123R will result reduction diluted earnings per common share approximately $ for the first quarter fiscal . Although the effect from the adoption SFAS . 123R expected have material impact the Company\x92 results operations, future changes various assumptions used determine the fair-value awards issued the amount and type equity awards granted create uncertainty the amount future stock-based compensation expense. Changes the Company\x92 tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\x92 future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the Company subject the continuous examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for income taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have adverse affect the Company\x92 net income and financial condition. The Company\x92 stock price may volatile. The Company\x92 stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that may have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, including lack positive general economic and political conditions and investors\x92 concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\x92 stock the future. addition, increases the Company\x92 stock price may result greater dilution earnings per share. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144533704_D11492_687996\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 7a. ': "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and its interest rate swap and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\x92 leading industrialized countries, the Company\x92 interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\x92 short-term investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\x92 investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. The Company\x92 exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , approximately $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. September , , $ million the Company\x92 investment portfolio classified short-term investments had maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities, due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized net loss before taxes $ , , and net gains before taxes $ million and $ million , and , respectively result such sales. order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\x92 policy hold investments maturity. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413228644_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' From time time, the Company has entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\x92 floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its debt, and diversify portion the Company\x92 exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company did not enter into any interest rate derivatives during and had open interest rate derivatives September , . Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413228644_D11851_687811\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 8. ': "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413141962_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Goodwill Acquired intangible assets, net Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) \x97 ( ) Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131358802_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Restructuring costs \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) , ( ) Other income and expense: Gains non-current investments, net \x97 Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes , Provision for income taxes Income before accounting changes , Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes \x97 \x97 Net income $ , $ $ Earnings per common share before accounting changes: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131259130_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) Accumulated Other Total Common Stock Deferred Stock Retained Comprehensive Shareholders\x92 Shares Amount Compensation Earnings Income (Loss) Equity Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Write-off deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , ( ) \x97 \x97 Settlement forward purchase agreement ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income Issuance restricted stock units \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Adjustment common stock related prior year acquisition ( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income , Issuance restricted stock units, net \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ \x97 $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131258765_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income , Cumulative effects accounting changes, net taxes \x97 \x97 ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock-based compensation expense Non-cash restructuring \x97 Provision for (benefit from) deferred income taxes ( ) Tax benefit from stock options Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Gains sales short-term investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Gains non-current investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Other liabilities Cash generated operating activities , Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , Proceeds from sales non-current investments \x97 Purchases property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Cash (used for) generated investing activities ( , ) ( , ) Financing Activities: Payment long-term debt \x97 ( ) \x97 Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock \x97 \x97 ( ) Cash generated financing activities Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ \x97 $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net $ $ ( ) $ See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131149411_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, and television shows. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its own retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition its own hardware, software, and peripheral products, the Company sells variety third-party hardware and software products through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Typically, the Company\x92 fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years , , and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. The Company will add this additional week the first fiscal quarter its fiscal year . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Common Stock Split February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. The Company\x92 debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates available-for-sale designation each balance sheet date. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\x92 equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not defined hedges SFAS , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, must adjusted fair value through earnings. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts hedge the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. For such contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates, are recognized current earnings other income and expense. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. The Company\x92 inventories consist primarily finished goods for all periods presented. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Asset Retirement Obligations The Company records obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations . The Company reviews legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. determined that legal obligation exists, the fair value the liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow and its present value accreted over the life the related lease operating expense. All the Company\x92 existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 asset retirement liabilities for fiscal and ( millions): Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes , the Company recognized net favorable cumulative effect type adjustment approximately $ million from the adoption SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristic Both Liabilities and Equity and SFAS . . Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three fiscal years ended September , , the Company had material impairment its long-lived assets, except for the impairment certain assets connection with the restructuring actions described Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not amortized but rather tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill impairment tests about August each year. The Company did not recognize any goodwill intangible asset impairment charges , , . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included \x93accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\x92 results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, peripherals, digital content, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from service and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the service coverage periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the service coverage offered under the Company\x92 one-year limited warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies the gross amount billed. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based the relative fair value each element. Each element\x92 allocated revenue recognized when revenue recognition criteria for that element has been met. Fair value generally determined vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), which based the price charged when each element sold separately. the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value any undelivered element included multiple-element arrangement, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, until fair value can objectively determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value delivered element has not been established, the Company uses the residual method recognize revenue the fair value all undelivered elements determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value the undelivered elements deferred and the remaining portion the arrangement fee allocated the delivered elements and recognized revenue. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. When the Company does offer specified upgrade rights, the Company defers revenue for the fair value the specified upgrade right until the future obligation fulfilled when the right the specified upgrade expires. Additionally, limited number the Company\x92 software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect customers\x92 ability pay. Shipping Costs The Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. the fourth quarter , the Company began incurring substantial development costs associated with Mac version Tiger subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration August and the subsequent release developer beta version the product. The Company capitalized approximately $ and $ million during and , respectively, costs associated with the development Tiger. accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset cost sales began April when the Company began shipping Tiger and being recognized straight-line basis over year estimated useful life. During the second quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with FileMaker Pro subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta version, and prior the release the final version the product March . Therefore, during the second quarter , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with the development FileMaker Pro . accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset cost sales began March when the Company began shipping FileMaker Pro and being recognized straight-line basis over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named \x93Panther\x94), subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta June , and prior release the final version the product the first quarter . Therefore, during the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with the development Panther. Amortization this asset began the first quarter when Panther was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation The Company currently measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees . The Company applies the disclosure provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure the fair-value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\x92 employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) required under SFAS . , the pro forma effects stock-based compensation net income and earnings per common share for employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan share purchases have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income over the options\x92 vesting period and the shares\x92 plan period. The Company\x92 pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): Net income\x97 reported $ , $ $ Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss)\x97pro forma $ , $ $ ( ) Net income per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) December , the FASB issued SFAS . (revised ) (SFAS . 123R), Share-Based Payment , which addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. SFAS . 123R eliminates the ability account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under APB Opinion . , and requires instead that such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. January , the SEC issued SAB . , which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS . 123R. SFAS . 123R will effective for the Company beginning the first quarter its fiscal . The Company\x92 assessment the estimated stock-based compensation expense affected the Company\x92 stock price well assumptions regarding number complex variables and the related tax impact. These variables include, but are not limited , the Company\x92 stock price, volatility, and employee stock option exercise behaviors and the related tax impact. The Company will recognize stock-based compensation expense all awards straight-line basis over the requisite service period using the modified prospective method. Although the adoption SFAS . 123R expected have material effect the Company\x92 results operations, future changes various assumptions used determine the fair-value awards issued the amount and type equity awards granted create uncertainty whether future stock-based compensation expense will similar the historical SFAS . pro forma expense. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from outstanding options, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Additionally, the exercise employee stock options and the vesting restricted stock and restricted stock units can result greater dilutive effect earnings per share. The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share: Numerator ( millions): Income before accounting changes $ , $ $ Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 Net income $ , $ $ Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding, excluding unvested restricted stock , , , Effect dilutive options, restricted stock units and restricted stock , , , Denominator for diluted earnings per share , , , Basic earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Basic earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share before accounting changes $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share after accounting changes $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities representing approximately million, million, and million shares common stock for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. These potentially dilutive securities include stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131148734_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. Information about the Company\x92 products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued expenses approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments ( millions): September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , , Foreign securities , Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities , . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , The Company\x92 . corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had net unrealized losses totaling $ million its investment portfolio, approximately half which related investments with stated maturities less than year September , and net unrealized losses $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities less than year September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. The Company recognized net loss before taxes $ , and net gains before taxes $ million and $ million and , respectively, result such sales. These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. September , , approximately $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) accordance with EITF - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments , the following table shows gross unrealized losses and fair value for those investments that were unrealized loss position September , and September , , aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agencies $ $ ( ) $ $ \x97 $ $ ( ) Corporate bonds ( ) \x97 ( ) Certificate deposits \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset backed securities ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Commercial paper , ( ) \x97 \x97 , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agencies $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) Corporate bonds \x97 ( ) ( ) Certificate deposits ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Asset backed securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Commercial paper , ( ) \x97 \x97 , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Market values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. The decline value these investments primarily related changes interest rates and considered temporary nature. Investments are reviewed periodically identify possible impairment. When evaluating the investments, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the issuer, and the Company\x92 ability and intent hold the investment for period time which may sufficient for anticipated recovery market value. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\x92 direct customers. These credit financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. customer accounted for more than % trade receivables September , September , . The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): September , September , September , Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balance sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the products are sold through the end customer which time the profit recognized reduction cost sales. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate derivative agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\x92 accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ $ $ Sold options $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ Purchased options $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models and prevailing financial market information September , and September , . Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\x92 . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\x92 non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company recognized net losses $ million and $ million and , respectively, other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\x92 forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. net gains, losses, similar nature were recorded . September , , the Company had net deferred gain associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million, net taxes, substantially all which expected reclassified earnings the end the second quarter fiscal . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument designated net investment hedge included the cumulative translation adjustment account accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders\x92 equity. September , and September , , the Company had net gain $ , and net loss $ million, respectively, included the cumulative translation adjustment. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities recorded non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. Due currency market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Interest Rate Risk Management From time time, the Company historically entered into interest rate derivative transactions with financial institutions order better match the Company\x92 floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense any outstanding long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\x92 exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. During and , the Company entered into and then subsequently terminated various interest rate debt swap agreements generating realized gain $ million. These gains were deferred and amortized over the remaining life the underlying debt, which matured and was repaid February . September , and September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413102947_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company previously held significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). Company sold all the remaining holdings these non-current investments and . Pretax gains recorded upon the sale these non-current investments were $ million and $ million and , respectively. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Other Current Assets Vendor non-trade receivables $ $ Other current assets Total other current assets $ $ Property, Plant, and Equipment Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ Other Assets Non-current deferred tax assets $ $ Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ $ Accrued Expenses Deferred revenue\x97current $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ , $ , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) (Continued) Non-current Liabilities Deferred revenue\x97non-current $ $ Deferred tax liabilities Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities $ $ Interest and Other Income, net Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense \x97 ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments \x97 Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ Note \x97Goodwill and Other intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ During the fourth quarter , the Company recorded adjustment approximately $ million goodwill relating reduction valuation allowances that were recorded the time certain net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) were acquired previous business combinations. During the fourth quarter , these NOLs were deemed more likely than not realized and accordingly the valuation allowances were reversed against the related goodwill that was recognized the time the acquisitions. During the third quarter , the Company recorded adjustment approximately $ million goodwill related the acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool) . This reduction goodwill included the cancellation , shares the Company\x92 common stock, valued approximately $ million, that were previously held escrow and were refunded upon resolution certain matters arising out the acquisition PowerSchool. This adjustment also included approximately $ million adjust the original estimates the pre-acquisition PowerSchool restructuring liability actual costs incurred. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Goodwill and Other intangible Assets (Continued) Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Note \x97Restructuring Charges Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations conjunction with the vacating leased sales facility related European workforce reduction during the fourth quarter . the $ million charge, $ million had been utilized the end , with the remaining $ million consisting $ million for employee severance benefits and $ million for lease cancellations. These actions will result the termination employees, which had been terminated prior the end . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during ( millions): Employee Severance Asset Lease Benefits Impairments Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Accrual September , $ $ \x97 $ $ Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments, and $ million charge for lease cancellations primarily related the closure the Company\x92 Singapore manufacturing operations during the first quarter . the $ million charge, all had been utilized the end , except for approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally expected and shortfall SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restructuring Charges (Continued) approximately $ , was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\x92 Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. These actions resulted the termination employees. The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during ( millions): Employee Deferred Severance Compensation Asset Lease Benefits Write-off Impairments Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Accrual September , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ $ $ Deferred ( ) State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\x92 foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Income Taxes (Continued) October , , the American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA) was signed into law. The AJCA includes provision for the deduction % certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, defined the AJCA. The legislation provided the Company with the option apply this provision repatriations qualifying earnings either . The Company continuing evaluate the effects the repatriation provision and expects complete the evaluation . maximum $ million may eligible for repatriation under the reduced tax rate provided AJCA. However, given the uncertainties and complexities the repatriation provision and the Company\x92 continuing evaluation, the Company has not yet determined the amount that may repatriated the related potential income tax effects such repatriation. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ $ Tax losses and credits Basis capital assets and investments Accounts receivable and inventory reserves Other Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . portion these carryforwards was acquired from the Company\x92 previous acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , and September , , valuation allowance $ million and $ million, respectively, was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The remaining valuation allowance relates principally the state operating losses. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Income Taxes (Continued) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): Computed expected tax $ $ $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other items ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ Effective tax rate % % % During , the Company reversed certain tax contingency reserves and recorded corresponding benefit income tax expense primarily result change the estimated outcome certain tax disputes. Additionally, during the fourth quarter , the Company recorded benefit tax expense adjust its net deferred tax assets result the Company\x92 year-end review its deferred tax accounts, the impact which was not material the current prior periods\x92 results operations. The total benefit income tax expense from the reversal these tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets was $ million. The Company also recorded $ million credit income tax expense resulting from reduction the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for all years prior and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for these years have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity Preferred Stock The Company has million shares authorized preferred stock, none which outstanding. Under the terms the Company\x92 Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\x92 authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131018770_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity (Continued) Restricted Stock Units During and , the Company\x92 Board Directors approved the grant , and million restricted stock units, respectively, members the Company\x92 senior management team, excluding its CEO. These restricted stock units generally vest over four years either two equal installments the second and fourth anniversaries the date grant equal installments each the first through fourth anniversaries the grant date. Upon vesting, the restricted stock units will convert into equivalent number shares common stock. The Company has recorded $ million and $ million and , respectively, value for these restricted stock units component shareholders\x92 equity and amortizing the amounts straight-line basis over the four-year requisite service period. The value the restricted stock units was based the closing market price the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. The restricted stock units have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company entered into Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the Agreement) with . Steven . Jobs, its CEO. The Agreement cancelled stock option awards for the purchase million shares the Company\x92 common stock previously granted . Jobs and . . Jobs retained options purchase , shares the Company\x92 common stock granted August his capacity member the Company\x92 Board Directors, prior becoming the Company\x92 CEO. The Agreement replaced the cancelled options with restricted stock award million shares the Company\x92 common stock. The restricted stock award generally vests three years from the date grant. Vesting some all the restricted shares will accelerated the event . Jobs terminated without cause, dies, has his management role reduced following change control the Company. The Company determined the value the restricted stock award accordance with APB Opinion . and has recorded the value deferred stock compensation component shareholders\x92 equity and amortizing that amount straight-line basis over the year service period. The value the restricted stock award was based the closing market price the Company\x92 common stock the date the award. The million restricted shares have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\x92 common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity (Continued) Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under . generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net taxes ( millions): Unrealized gains/(losses) available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Unrealized gains/(losses) derivative investments ( ) ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation \x97 ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) $ \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ \x97 $ ( ) $ Adjustment for net gains realized and included net income \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities $ \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains losses included net income was $ million and $( ) million for and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): Changes fair value derivatives $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Adjustment for net gains realized and included net income Change unrealized gain loss derivative instruments $ $ $ ( ) The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $( ) million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains losses reclassified from other comprehensive income net income was $( ) million, $( ) million, and $( ) million for , , and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the Plan) shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based grants employees, including executive officers. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. October , the Company terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan and cancelled all remaining unissued shares totaling , , . new options can granted from the Plan. Employee Stock Option Exchange Program March , , the Company announced voluntary employee stock option exchange program (the Exchange Program) whereby eligible employees, other than executive officers and members the Board Directors, had opportunity exchange outstanding options with exercise prices above $ per share for predetermined smaller number new stock options issued with exercise prices equal the fair market value one share the Company\x92 common stock the day the new awards were issued, which was least six months plus one day after the exchange options were cancelled. April , , accordance with the Exchange Program, the Company cancelled options purchase , , shares its common stock. October , , new stock options totaling , , shares were issued employees exercise price $ per share, which equivalent the closing price the Company\x92 stock that date. financial accounting impact the Company\x92 financial position, results operations cash flow was associated with this transaction. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\x92 executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook, . Peter Oppenheimer, . Jonathan Rubinstein, . Philip . Schiller, . Bertrand Serlet, and . Avadis Tevanian, ., have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting restricted stock units. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\x92 compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. Beginning with the six-month offering period that started June , , the number shares authorized for issuance limited total million shares per offering period. During , , and , adjusted for the February stock split million, million, and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) Stock Option Activity summary the Company\x92 stock option activity and related information for the last three fiscal years follows (share amounts are presented thousands): Shares Outstanding Options Available Number Weighted Average for Grant Shares Exercise Price Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Units Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Restricted Stock Units Granted ( ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted Stock Units Cancelled \x97 \x97 Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ conjunction with the amendments the Plan that were approved the Annual Meeting Shareholders held April , , the number shares available for grant under the Plan will reduced two times the number restricted shares and restricted stock units granted. This amendment effective for all grants made after April , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans (Continued) The options outstanding September , have been segregated into eight ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ $ $ -$ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ -$ , $ , $ September , , the Company had exercisable options outstanding purchase million shares with weighted average exercise price $ per share. September , , the Company had exercisable options outstanding purchase million shares with weighted average exercise price $ per share. The Company had million restricted stock units outstanding September , , which were excluded from the options outstanding balances the preceding tables. None these restricted stock units was vested September , . These restricted stock units have been deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\x92 stock option plans. Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value method accounting for stock compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the option awards issued October and the awards cancelled part the Employee Stock Option Exchange Program have been accounted for using modification accounting. accordance with SFAS . , the grant date the awards issued the date acceptance the exchange offer participating employees. The cancellation certain the Company\x92 CEO\x92 options and replacement with restricted shares March also being accounted for using modification accounting for purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413859270_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation (Continued) The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: Expected life stock options - years years - years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options % - % % - % % - % Interest rate\x97stock purchases % - % % - % % - % Volatility\x97stock options % - % % % - % Volatility\x97stock purchases % - % % - % % - % Dividend yields \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company are based the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\x92 stock options and other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\x92 common stock and the impact unusual fluctuations not reasonably expected recur the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock options grants employees. Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ million, which $ million related leases for retail space. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94)) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\x92 CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Long-Term Supply Agreements Subsequent September , , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these agreements, the Company intends prepay total $ billion for flash memory components the end the second quarter . Contingencies The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity, results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 financial condition, liquidity, results operations. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , the Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\x92 subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies,\x94 except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales. The Retail segment\x92 performance also evaluated based operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress that not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and respectively. Operating income for all segments, except Retail, includes cost sales manufacturing standard cost, other cost sales, related sales and marketing costs, and certain general and administrative costs. This measure operating income, which includes manufacturing profit, provides comparable basis for comparison between the Company\x92 various geographic segments. Certain manufacturing expenses and related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) Management assesses the operating performance the Retail segment differently than assesses the operating performance the Company\x92 geographic segments. The Retail segment revenue and operating income intended depict measure comparable that the Company\x92 major channel partners the . operating retail stores the Company can evaluate the Retail segment performance were channel partner. Therefore, the Company makes three significant adjustments the Retail segment for management reporting purposes that are not included the results the Company\x92 other segments. First, the Retail segment\x92 operating income includes cost sales for Apple products amount normally charged major channel partners the . operating retail stores, less the cost sales programs and incentives provided those channel partners and the Company\x92 cost support those partners. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , , this resulted the recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Second, the Company\x92 service and support contracts are transferred the Retail segment the same cost that charged the Company\x92 major retail channel partners the ., resulting measure revenue and gross margin for those items that comparable between the Company\x92 Retail stores and those retail channel partners. The Retail segment recognizes the full amount revenue and cost sales the Company\x92 service and support contracts the time sale. Because the Company has not yet earned the revenue incurred the costs associated with the sale these contracts, offset these amounts recognized other operating segments\x92 net sales and cost sales. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets other operating segments, $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , the net sales and cost sales recognized the Retail segment for sales service and support contracts were $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment $ million and $ million, respectively. Third, the Company has opened seven high profile stores New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, Tokyo, Japan, Osaka, Japan, and London, England September , . These high profile stores are larger than the Company\x92 typical retail stores and were designed further promote brand awareness and provide venue for certain corporate sales and marketing activities, including corporate briefings. such, the Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with these stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated benefit realized Company-wide. The allocation these operating costs based the amount incurred for high profile store excess that incurred more typical Company retail location. Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these stores were $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ Operating income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) Depreciation, amortization, and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Other Segments ( ): Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments include Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ $ Retail manufacturing margin ( ) Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Restructuring costs \x97 ( ) ( ) Consolidated operating income (loss) $ , $ $ ( ) Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Corporate assets , , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization, and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ ( ) Represents the excess the Retail segment\x92 cost sales over the Company\x92 standard cost sales for products sold through the Retail segment. ( ) Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the ., Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): Net Sales: . $ , $ , $ , Japan , Other Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: . $ $ $ Japan Other Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): Net Sales: Desktops ( ) $ , $ , $ , Portables ( ) , , , Total Macintosh net sales , , , iPod , , Other music related products and services ( ) Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , Software, service, and other net sales ( ) , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Power Mac and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes iBook and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Music Store sales and iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement became effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ million, $ , , and $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , , and , respectively. All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included selling, general, and administrative expenses the consolidated statements operations. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into agreement with Pixar sell certain Pixar\x92 short films the iTunes Music Store. . Steven . Jobs, the Company\x92 CEO also the CEO, Chairman, and large shareholder Pixar. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth quarter benefited $ million from the reversal certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets, including reductions valuation allowances. Net income during the fourth, third, and second quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Net income during the fourth quarter included after-tax gains related non-current investments $ million. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413849251_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the consolidated financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion management\x92 assessment , and the effective operation internal control over financial reporting. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for asset retirement obligations and for financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity . / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413759130_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO). Apple Computer, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness Apple Computer, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that Apple Computer, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting September , , fairly stated, all material respects, based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued COSO. Also, our opinion, Apple Computer, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued COSO. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion those consolidated financial statements. / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\33413759130_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': "Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act) were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended). Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based this evaluation, management has concluded that the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144833341_D11492_688001\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' effective September , . The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, has issued attestation report the Company\x92 assessment its internal control over financial reporting. The report the audit internal control over financial reporting appears page this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were significant changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting identified management\x92 evaluation during the fourth quarter fiscal that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. ", 'item 9b. ': "Other Information None. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334144833341_D11492_688001\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' PART III ", 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': "Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\x92 seven directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. Name Position With the Company Age Director Since Fred . Anderson Director William . Campbell -lead Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert . Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson -lead Director Jerome . York Director Fred . Anderson has been founding partner Elevation Partners, private equity firm focused the media and entertainment industry, since July . Previously, . Anderson served the Company\x92 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April June . . Anderson also serves the Board Directors eBay Inc. William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. (\x93Intuit\x94) since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the Board Directors Opsware, Inc. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since January . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Albert . Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. since . has also served Executive Chairman Current since and Chairman Generation Investment Management since . visiting professor Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the . . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the Cabinet and the National Security Council. Prior , served eight years the . Senate and eight years the . House Representatives. Steven . Jobs one the Company\x92 -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. Arthur . Levinson, . has been Chief Executive Officer and Director Genentech Inc. (\x93 Genentech\x94 ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . . Levinson also serves the Board Directors Google, Inc. Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company that controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\x92 Board Directors from January August . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Exide Technologies. Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that governance far more than \x93check the box\x94 approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\x92 website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (\x93 Nominating Committee\x94 ) and Audit and Finance Committee (\x93 Audit Committee \x94). All committee members are independent under the listing standards the NASDAQ Stock Market. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\x92 independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\x92 accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Members the Audit Committee are Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson. The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\x92 executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\x92 equity compensation plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, and Gore. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\x92 corporate governance guidelines. The Nominating Committee also considers nominees proposed shareholders. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Drexler and Gore and . Levinson. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available Apple\x92 website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert All members the Company\x92 Audit Committee, Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson, qualify \x93audit committee financial experts\x94 under Item ( ) Regulation - and are considered \x93independent\x94 the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\x92 employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and its Board Directors. copy this code, \x93Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide\x94 available the Company\x92 SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' website www apple com investor. The Company intends disclose any changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled \x93 Directors. \x94 Timothy . Cook , Chief Operating Officer (age ), joined the Company February . . Cook also served with the Company Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations from . , his responsibilities were expanded include the Company\x92 Macintosh hardware engineering. From , . Cook served the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Sales, Service and Support. Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (\x93 Compaq\x94 ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. . Cook also serves member the Board Directors Nike, Inc. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT Software, Inc. (\x93 NeXT \x94) from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (\x93 ADP\x94 ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, iPod Division (age ), joined the Company February . . Rubinstein also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering. Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\x92 acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\x92 acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\x92 officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\x92 equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93 SEC \x94). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 11. ': "Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the \x93 Named Executive Officers\x94 ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Chief Executive Officer \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , ( ) \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) Chief Operating Officer , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( ) Ronald . Johnson , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , ( ) \x97 \x97 , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Peter Oppenheimer , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) Senior Vice President and , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) Chief Financial Officer , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) Senior Vice President, , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) iPod Division , \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( ) ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity Director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs million (split-adjusted) restricted shares the Company\x92 Common Stock that generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) Market value restricted stock units granted March , (based $ per share, the closing price the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ National Market the day grant). Restricted stock units generally vest over four years with % the total number shares vesting each the second and fourth anniversaries the grant date. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options, restricted stock, restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334131458849_D11851_687824\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. The table has been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES Shares Acquired Exercise Value Realized Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name (#) ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 ( ) $ , , ( ) \x97 Timothy . Cook , $ , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 Ronald . Johnson , , $ , , , , , ( ) $ , , $ , , Peter Oppenheimer \x97 \x97 , , , ( ) $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein , , $ , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the NASDAQ National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Consists , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible receive option grants under the Director Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. ( ) This does not include million restricted shares granted . Jobs, , restricted stock units granted . Cook, and , restricted stock units granted each Messrs. Johnson, Oppenheimer, and Rubinstein. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board base substantial portion director\x92 annual retainer equity. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the \x93 Director Plan\x94 ) and , , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\x92 non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (\x93 Initial Options\x94 ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\x92 initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (\x93 Annual Options\x94 ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Non-employee directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. addition, directors receive two free computer systems per year and are eligible purchase additional equipment discount. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler and Gore, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered \x93independent\x94 directors under the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' applicable NASDAQ rules. There were interlocks insider participation between any member the Board Compensation Committee and any member the board the directors compensation committee another company. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options, Restricted Stock, and Restricted Stock Units the event \x93change control\x94 the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\x92 stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become fully exercisable, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable \x93change control price\x94 and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon \x93change control\x94 the Company, all outstanding options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable \x93change control price\x94 and the exercise price the options. \x93change control\x94 under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\x92 outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options, restricted stock grants, and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there \x93change control,\x94 defined the Company\x92 stock option plans, and connection with following such \x93change control,\x94 their employment terminated without \x93Cause\x94 they should resign for \x93Good Reason,\x94 those options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units outstanding that are not yet vested the date such \x93change control\x94 shall become fully vested. Further, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers also provide that, the event the Company terminates the Officer without cause any time, the restricted stock units and restricted stock will vest full. Generally, \x93Cause\x94 defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. \x93Good Reason\x94 includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. ", 'item 12. ': "Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the \x93 Table Date \x94) with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\x92 Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading \x93 Executive Compensation; \x94 and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. addition, unless otherwise indicated, all persons named below can reached Apple Computer, Inc., Infinite Loop, Cupertino, . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Security Ownership % Holders, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Fidelity Investments , , ( ) % Barclays Global Investors , , ( ) % AXA , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert . Gore, . , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Peter Oppenheimer , ( ) * Jonathan . Rubinstein , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , ( ) % ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. This does not include options restricted stock units that vest after days. The share numbers have been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Based Form 13F filed November , FMR Corp. FMR Corp. lists its address Devonshire Street, Boston, , , such filing. ( ) Based Form 13F filed November , , Barclays Global Investors. Barclays Global Investors lists its address Fremont Street, San Francisco, . ( ) Based Form 13F filed November , , AXA. AXA lists its address , Avenue Matigon, Paris, France . ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Campbell has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Excludes , restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Consists , shares Common Stock that . Gore has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options and excludes , restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock that . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Oppenheimer has the right acquire exercise stock options and excludes , restricted stock units. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ( ) Excludes , restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . York has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that executive officers directors have the right acquire exercise stock options. Does not include million restricted stock units. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\x92 equity compensation plans. The table has been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ \x97 Total equity compensation plans( ) , , $ , , ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan, and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. The grant , , shares restricted stock units has been deducted from the number shares available for future issuance. Shares restricted stock and restricted stock units granted after April count against the shares available for grant two shares for every share granted. This amount does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan that was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with prior acquisition company that originally granted those options. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under the assumed plan. ", 'item 13. ': "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . October , the Company entered into agreement with Pixar sell certain Pixar\x92 short films the iTunes Music Store. . Jobs, the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer also the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, and large shareholder Pixar. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 14. ': "Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees , ( ) , Tax Fees , ( ) , All Other Fees \x97 \x97 Total $ , , $ , , ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\x92 annual financial statements and internal control over financial reporting, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\x92 Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees primarily relate professional services for the audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\x92 expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for international tax consulting and planning services. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Auditors Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the \x93 Act \x94), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that the audit and non-audit services and related budget approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. accordance with this policy, all services performed KPMG were pre-approved the Audit Committee. Subsequent the enactment the Act, the Audit Committee met with KPMG further understand the provisions that Act relates auditor independence. KPMG rotated the lead audit partner for fiscal year and will rotate other partners appropriate compliance with the Act. The Audit Committee will continue monitor the activities undertaken KPMG comply with the Act. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132349270_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' PART ", 'item 15. ': "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. ( ) Index Exhibits Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Filing Date/ Period End Date Filed herewith Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through June , . - Certificate Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, amended, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\x92 % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132319872_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Plan, amended through November , . Reimbursement Agreement dated May , and between the Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated March , and between The Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. - - Alternative Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan dated April , . - Form Election Satisfy Tax Withholding with Stock. - Form Option Agreements. * Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. - * Purchase Agreement effective August , between the Registrant and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Code Ethics the Company. - Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer. Rule13a- ( )/15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer. Section Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. * Confidential Treatment requested certain portions this exhibit. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\334132319872_D11851_687850\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Nov : ' ", 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}