{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. Since the company was founded , have worked achieve this mission creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. develop and market software, services, hardware, and solutions that believe deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value people\x92 lives. business throughout the world and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services for many different types computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for personal computers, servers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. provide consulting and product and solution support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. also design and sell hardware including the Xbox gaming and entertainment console and accessories, the Zune digital music and entertainment device and accessories, and Microsoft personal computer (\x93 \x94) hardware products. addition selling individual products and services, offer suites products and services, including those discussed below and the enterprise client access license (\x93eCAL\x94) suite, which licenses access Microsoft server software products. earn revenues from customers paying fee license software; that will continue important part our business, even develop and deliver \x93cloud-based\x94 computing services. Cloud-based computing involves providing software, services and content over the Internet way shared computing resources located centralized data centers. Consumers and business customers access these resources from variety devices. Revenues are earned primarily from usage fees and advertising. Microsoft\x92 \x93software plus services\x94 vision reflects our belief that what most powerful for end users computing communication device running sophisticated software, interacting with cloud-based resources. Examples consumer-oriented cloud-based computing services offer currently include: \x95 Bing, our Internet search service; \x95 Windows Live Essentials suite, which allows users upload and organize photos, make movies, communicate via email and messaging and enhance online safety; and \x95 Xbox LIVE service, which enables online gaming, social networking, and content access. PART Item Our current cloud-based services for business users include: \x95 Microsoft Office Web Apps, which are the online companions Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote; \x95 our Business Productivity Online Suite, offering communications and collaboration solutions with high availability and simplified enterprise management; \x95 Microsoft Dynamics Online family customer relationship management (\x93CRM\x94) and enterprise resources planning services; and \x95 our Azure family services, including scalable operating system with compute, storage, hosting and management capabilities, relational database, and platform that helps developers connect applications and services the cloud premise. also conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software products and services. believe that delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated software platform the key meeting our customers\x92 needs and our future growth. believe that will continue lay the foundation for long-term growth delivering new products and services, creating new opportunities for partners, improving customer satisfaction, and improving our internal processes. Our focus build this foundation through ongoing innovation our integrated software platforms; delivering compelling value propositions customers; responding effectively customer and partner needs; and continuing emphasize the importance product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability. OPERATING SEGMENTS operate our business five segments: Windows & Windows Live Division, Server and Tools, Online Services Division, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide framework for timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. Windows & Windows Live Division Windows & Windows Live Division (\x93Windows Division\x94) has overall responsibility for development and marketing the Windows operating system, Windows Live and Internet Explorer. Windows Division revenue growth largely correlated the growth the market, the original equipment manufacturer (\x93OEM\x94) distribution channel accounts for approximately % total Windows Division revenue. addition market changes, Windows OEM revenue impacted : \x95 hardware market changes driven shifts between emerging markets and developed market, consumer PCs and business PCs, and the impact lower cost netbook PCs; \x95 the attachment Windows PCs shipped and changes inventory levels within the OEM channel; and \x95 pricing changes and promotions, the pricing variation associated with OEM channel shifts from local and regional system builders large, multinational OEMs, and other pricing factors. Windows Division offerings consist premium and standard edition Windows operating systems and online software and services through Windows Live. Premium Windows operating systems are those that include additional functionality and are sold price above our standard editions. Products and Services : Windows operating system: Windows , including Home Basic, Home Premium, Professional, Ultimate, Enterprise, and Starter Edition; Windows Vista, including Home Basic, Home Premium, Ultimate, Business, Enterprise and Starter Edition; and Windows Home. Windows Live suite applications and web services. PART Item Competition The Windows operating system faces competition from various commercial software products offered well-established companies, including Apple and Google, and from the Linux operating system. Linux derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License. Partners such Hewlett-Packard and Intel have been actively working with alternative Linux-based operating systems. The Windows operating system also faces competition from alternative platforms and new devices that may reduce consumer demand for PCs. User and usage volumes mobile devices are increasing around the world relative the . Competitors such Apple, Google, Mozilla, and Opera Software Company offer software that competes with the Web browsing capabilities Internet Explorer, component the Windows operating system. Our operating system products compete effectively delivering innovative software, giving customers choice and flexibility, familiar, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Windows Live software and services compete with Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide communication and sharing tools and services. Server and Tools Server and Tools develops and markets server software, software developer tools, services, and solutions that are designed make information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed support software applications built the Windows Server operating system and includes the server platform, database, storage, management and operations, service-oriented architecture platform, security and identity software. Server and Tools also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server offerings can run -site, partner-hosted environment, Microsoft-hosted environment. Our cloud-based services comprise scalable operating system with compute, storage, and management capabilities and relational database, both which allow customers run enterprise workloads and web applications the cloud, well platform that helps developers connect applications and services the cloud premise. Server and Tools offers broad range enterprise consulting and product support services (\x93Enterprise Services\x94) that assist customers developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions. Server and Tools also provides training and certification developers and information technology professionals for our Server and Tools, Microsoft Business Division, and Windows & Windows Live Division products and services. Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes from annuity volume licensing agreements, approximately % purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold OEMs, and the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. Products and Services : Windows Server operating system; Windows Azure; Microsoft SQL Server; SQL Azure; Visual Studio; Silverlight; System Center products; Biz Talk Server; Microsoft Consulting Services; Premier product support services; and other products and services. Competition Our server operating system products face competition from wide variety server operating systems and server applications, offered companies with variety market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions the Unix operating system preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute Linux operating system development. The competitive position Linux has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial and non-commercial software developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Novell and Red Hat. PART Item have entered into business and technical collaboration agreements with Novell and other Linux providers build, market, and support series solutions enhance the interoperability our products with their virtualization, management, and network security solutions, and provide each other\x92 customers with patent coverage for their respective products. compete provide enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms. IBM and Oracle lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition. Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our Web application platform software competes with open source software such Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP, and compete against Java middleware such Geronimo, JBoss, and Spring Framework. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and -business servers. System Center competes with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such BMC, Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMWare the management information technology infrastructures. Forefront products compete with Technologies, IBM, McAfee, Oracle, Symantec, and Trend Micro protecting both client and server applications. SQL Server competes with products from IBM, Oracle, Sybase, and other companies providing database, business intelligence and data warehousing solutions. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, Borland, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects. Competing open source projects include Eclipse (sponsored Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby Rails, among others. Our cloud-based services offerings also have many competitors. Windows Azure faces competition from Google, Salesforce com, and VMWare. SQL Azure faces competition from IBM and Oracle. believe that our server products, cloud-based services and Enterprise Services provide customers with advantages innovation, performance, total costs ownership, and productivity delivering superior applications, development tools, and compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Online Services Division The Online Services Division (\x93OSD\x94) consists online information offerings such Bing, MSN portals and channels, well online advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers. earn revenue primarily from online advertising, including search, display, and advertiser and publisher tools. continue launch updated and new online offerings and expect continue the future. During fiscal year , launched new releases Bing, MSN and Advertising Platforms. addition, December , , entered into definitive agreement with Yahoo! whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! Web sites. believe this agreement will allow over time improve the effectiveness and increase the value our search offering through greater scale search queries and expanded and more competitive search and advertising marketplace. Products and Services : Bing; Microsoft adCenter; MSN; and Atlas online tools for advertisers and publishers. Competition OSD competes with Google, Yahoo!, and wide array Web sites and portals that provide content and online offerings end users. compete with these organizations provide advertising opportunities for merchants. Competitors are continuously developing Internet offerings that seek provide more effective ways connecting advertisers with audiences. believe our search engine, Bing, helps users make faster, more informed decisions providing relevant search results, expanded search services, and broad selection content. have also enhanced the user interface bring richer search experience. also invest improving the scale our advertising platform serve both owned and operated, well third-party online properties. will continue introduce new products and services improve the user online experience. believe that can compete PART Item effectively attracting new users, understanding their intent, and matching their intent with relevant content, advertiser offerings and software services. will also attract advertisers providing them access targeted end-users high traffic network. Microsoft Business Division Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth revenue from the Microsoft Office system offerings, which generate over % MBD revenue, depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other information worker areas such content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management (\x93CRM\x94), supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. Approximately % MBD revenue generated from sales businesses, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Revenue from this category generally depends upon the number information workers licensed enterprise and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Approximately % MBD revenue derived from sales consumers, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. This revenue generally affected the level shipments and product launches. Products and Services : Microsoft Office; Microsoft SharePoint; and Microsoft Dynamics ERP and CRM, well Microsoft Office Web Apps, which are the online companions Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote. Competition Competitors the Microsoft Office system include many software application vendors such Adobe, Apple, Corel, Google, IBM, Novell, Oracle, Red Hat, Zoho, and local application developers Asia and Europe. Apple may distribute certain versions its application software products with various models its PCs and through its mobile devices. Corel and IBM have measurable installed bases with their office productivity products. Corel\x92 suites, and many local software suites around the world, are aggressively priced for OEMs preinstall them low-priced PCs. Google provides hosted messaging and productivity suite that competes with Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, and Microsoft SharePoint, including its FAST enterprise search technology. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted various commercial software vendors sell under their brands, including IBM, Novell, Oracle, and Red Hat. Web-based offerings such 37Signals, Adobe, AjaxWrite, gOffice, ShareOffice, Socialtext, ThinkFree, Zoho, other small projects competing with individual applications, can also position themselves alternatives Microsoft Office system products. Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with well-known vendors such Infor and Sage the market focused providing business solutions for small and mid-sized businesses. The market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises intensely competitive with small number primary vendors including Oracle and SAP. Additionally, Salesforce com\x92 -demand customer relationship management offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamics CRM\x92 -premise offerings. continue respond market demand for additional functionality and products, will compete with additional vendors, most notably content management and enterprise search, collaboration tools, unified communications, and business intelligence. These competitors include Autonomy, Cisco, Endeca, Google, IBM, Oracle, and SAP. believe our products compete effectively with all these vendors based our strategy providing flexible, easy use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have. PART Item Entertainment and Devices Division The Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) responsible for developing, producing, and marketing: the Xbox platform, including the Xbox gaming and entertainment console and accessories, third-party games, games published under the Microsoft brand, and Xbox LIVE services, well research, sales, and support those products and services; software games; online games and services; Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software); Windows Phone and Windows Embedded device platforms; the Zune digital music and entertainment platform; application software for Apple\x92 Macintosh computers, Microsoft hardware products and other devices. EDD also responsible for all retail sales and marketing for retail packaged versions the Microsoft Office system and the Windows operating systems. Products and Services : Xbox console and games; Xbox LIVE; Windows Phone; Windows Embedded device operating system; Zune; Mediaroom; and numerous consumer software and hardware products (such Mac Office, mice, and keyboards); and Windows Automotive. Competition Entertainment and devices businesses are highly competitive, characterized rapid product life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition. anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. From time time, have responded this pressure reducing prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis product innovation, quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. Our Xbox gaming and entertainment business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five years. released Xbox , our second generation console, November . Nintendo and Sony released new versions their game consoles late . believe the success gaming and entertainment consoles determined the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the console, and the ability create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. think the Xbox positioned well against competitive console products based significant innovation hardware architecture, new developer tools, online gaming services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have licensed develop and publish software for the Xbox consoles. Windows Phone faces competition from Apple, Google, Nokia, Openwave Systems, Palm, QUALCOMM, Research Motion, and Symbian. The embedded operating system business highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. Zune competes with Apple and other manufacturers digital music and entertainment devices. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. Mediaroom faces competition primarily from variety competitors that provide elements Internet protocol television delivery platform, but that not provide end- -end solutions for the network operator. Additional information our operating segments and geographic and product information contained Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). PART Item OPERATIONS serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, localize many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our operational centers support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. addition the operational centers, also operate data centers throughout the United States and Europe. contract most our manufacturing activities for Xbox and related games, Zune, various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Our Xbox console includes certain key components that are supplied single source. The integrated central processing unit graphics processing unit purchased from IBM and the supporting embedded dynamic random access memory chips are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. Although have chosen initially source these key Xbox components from single supplier, are under obligation exclusively source components from these vendors the future. Beyond the exceptions noted, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and product development efforts. While most our software products are developed internally, also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. believe are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Generally, also create product documentation internally. strive obtain information early possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Investing Business and Product Development Innovation the foundation for Microsoft\x92 success. Our model for growth based our ability initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new markets, both terms geographies and product areas, and drive broad adoption the products and services develop and market. maintain our long-term commitment research and development across wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration; information access and organization; entertainment; business and -commerce; advertising; and devices. PART Item Increasingly, are taking global approach innovation. While our main research and development facilities are located the United States, Redmond, Washington, also operate research and development facilities other parts the United States and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, England, India, Ireland, and Israel. This global approach will help remain competitive local markets and enable continue attract top talent from across the world. invest innovation focusing the emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that believe offer significant opportunities deliver value our customers and growth for the company. Microsoft Research one the world\x92 largest computer science research organizations, and works close collaboration with top universities around the world advance the state- -the-art computer science, providing unique perspective future technology trends. Based our assessment key technology trends and our broad focus long-term research and development new products and services, areas where see significant opportunities drive future growth include: Cloud computing and software plus services The ability combine the power desktop and server software with the reach the Internet creating important opportunities for growth almost every one our businesses. Accordingly, are focused innovation and broadening our platform develop cloud computing ecosystem that positions for success areas including virtualization, management, and security identity. are also focused delivering end- -end experiences that connect users information, communications, entertainment, and people new ways across their lives home, work, and the broadest possible range mobile scenarios through investments datacenters; new versions Windows and Office that are designed support wide range connected scenarios; solutions for businesses that can deployed customer, service provider like Microsoft, Microsoft partner; tools for developers and Web designers; and consumer products and services including Xbox , Xbox LIVE, Windows Live services and Zune. Natural user interfaces The next few years will also see dramatic changes the way people interact with technology touch, gestures, handwriting, and speech recognition become normal part how control devices. This will make technology more accessible and simpler use and will create opportunities reach new markets and deliver new kinds computing experiences. Our long-term investments natural user interfaces can seen products like Windows , the Microsoft Auto software platform and Kinect for Xbox . believe sensory input just one aspect Natural User Interface technology, and are researching the impact several \x93interaction paradigms\x94 such contextual awareness and environmental awareness. New scenario innovation key industries Continuing improvement the power computers and devices and the speed and ubiquity networks creating opportunities deliver innovation that will transform number key industries and address significant global issues including healthcare, environmental sustainability, and education. healthcare, for example, computing will connect personal health information medical research and help make healthcare more preventive, personalized, and cost-effective. Today, Microsoft products such HealthVault and Amalga help individuals manage their personal health and enable healthcare professionals integrate research and health information they can deliver more effective care. also believe that are entering period where personal computers will play increasingly important role virtually every field scientific research and discovery. PART Item Intelligent computing computing power increases, our ability build software that has the intelligence understand user\x92 preferences based the tools and information they have accessed the past and anticipate their future needs rapidly improving. This development will enable deliver new generation software solutions that make people more productive enabling them focus more what they want accomplish and less the steps needed use technology. DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online. OEM license our software OEMs for distribution pre-installed software new PCs. The most significant part the OEM business for licensing the Windows operating system. also license OEMs certain server operating systems and desktop applications such our Microsoft Office system and consumer software products. addition licensing them software, market through OEMs hardware devices and software services, including our Windows Live Essentials suite. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUSTek, Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba, and the regional OEMs, including Medion, MSI, and Positivo. addition, portion the OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume, customized vendors operating local markets. Distributors and Resellers license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products and services. Organizations license our products and services primarily through large account resellers (\x93LARs\x94), distributors, value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94), OEMs, system builder channels and retailers. Additionally, solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies and developers advise organizations the acquisition licenses our products and services. Many organizations that license products through enterprise agreements transact directly with , with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations. Distributors resell primarily VARs and VARs typically reach the small-sized and medium-sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets, including Best Buy, Target, and Wal-Mart. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include: Open licensing Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), these programs allow customers acquire perpetual subscription licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software PART Item products over specified time period (two three years depending the Open program used). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software products over the contract period called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Select licensing Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, software assurance over specified time period (generally three years less). Similar the Open program, the Select program allows customers acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Enterprise agreement licensing Enterprise agreements are targeted medium and large organizations (greater than licenses) that want acquire licenses software products, along with software assurance, for all substantial parts their enterprise. Enterprises can elect either acquire perpetual licenses , under the Enterprise Subscription program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for specified time period (generally three years). Online services are also available for purchase through the Enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms. Online Although client-based software will continue important part our business, increasingly are delivering greater value customers through cloud-based services. have expanding portfolio products, services, and solutions that market and distribute online. provide online content and services consumers through Bing, Windows Live Essentials suite, Microsoft Office Web Apps, our MSN portals and channels, and Xbox LIVE. provide content and services business users through the Microsoft Online Services platform, which includes cloud-based services such Windows Azure, SQL Azure, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, SharePoint Online, Exchange Online, and Office Communications. Other services delivered online include our online advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, well Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small-sized and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small-sized and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers and OEMs. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. PART Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Lisa . Brummel Senior Vice President, Human Resources Stephen . Elop President, Microsoft Business Division Peter . Klein Chief Financial Officer Robert . Muglia President, Server and Tools Craig . Mundie Chief Research and Strategy Officer Steven Sinofsky President, Windows & Windows Live Division Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President; General Counsel; Secretary . Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer . Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . . Ballmer joined Microsoft . . Brummel was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources December . She had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since May . From May May , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home & Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions Microsoft, including general manager Consumer Productivity business, product unit manager the Kids business, and product unit manager Desktop and Decision reference products. . Elop was named President, Microsoft Business Division January . Prior joining the Company, . Elop served Chief Operating Officer Juniper Networks, Inc. from January January . From December December , served President Worldwide Field Operations Adobe Systems Inc. . Elop joined Adobe following the acquisition Macromedia Inc., where was President and Chief Executive Officer from January December . During his almost eight-year tenure Macromedia, . Elop held many senior positions, including Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President Worldwide Field Operations and General Manager Macromedia\x92 eBusiness division. . Klein was named Chief Financial Officer November . served Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Microsoft Business Division since February and Chief Financial Officer the Server and Tools Business Group from July February . . Klein joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named President, Server and Tools January . had been Senior Vice President, Server and Tools since October . Before holding that position, had number leadership positions Microsoft, including Senior Vice President, Enterprise Storage Division since November , Group Vice President, Personal Services Group since August , Group Vice President, Business Productivity since December , Senior Vice President, Business Productivity since March , Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools since February , and Corporate Vice President, Server Applications since . . Muglia joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Chief Research and Strategy Officer June . had been Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy since August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . . Mundie joined Microsoft . . Sinofsky was named President, Windows & Windows Live Division July . served Senior Vice President the Windows and Windows Live Engineering Group since December and Senior Vice President, Office from December December . had been Vice President, Office since December . . Sinofsky joined the Office team , increasing his responsibility with each subsequent release the desktop suite. . Sinofsky joined Microsoft . PART Item . Smith was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. . Smith joined Microsoft . . Turner was named Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division. From September August , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From March September , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Company Internet address www microsoft com. our Investor Relations Web site, www microsoft com investor, make available free charge variety information for investors. Our goal maintain the Investor Relations Web site portal through which investors can easily find navigate pertinent information about , including: \x95 our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file that material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94); \x95 information our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators; \x95 announcements investor conferences, speeches, and events which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives these events are also available; \x95 press releases quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news; \x95 corporate governance information including our articles, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes conduct and ethics, global corporate citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies; \x95 other news and announcements that may post from time time that investors might find useful interesting; and \x95 opportunities sign for email alerts and RSS feeds have information pushed real time. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. PART Item ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and the trading price our common stock. The cloud-based computing model presents execution and competitive risks. are transitioning computing environment characterized cloud-based services used with smart client devices. Our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services the cloud. are devoting significant resources develop our own competing cloud-based software plus services strategies. While believe our expertise, investments infrastructure, and the breadth our cloud-based services provides with strong foundation compete, uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users generate the revenue required successful. addition software development costs, are incurring costs build and maintain infrastructure support cloud computing services. These costs may reduce the operating margins have previously achieved. Whether are successful this new business model depends our execution number areas, including: \x95 continuing innovate and bring market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; \x95 maintaining the utility, compatibility and performance our cloud-based services the growing array computing devices, including smartphones, handheld computers, netbooks, tablets and television set top devices; and \x95 continuing enhance the attractiveness our cloud platforms third-party developers. Challenges our business models may reduce our revenues operating margins. Whether our software runs the cloud device, continue face challenges from alternative means developing and licensing software. Under our license-based software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. Certain \x93open source\x94 software business models challenge our license-based software model. Open source commonly refers software whose source code subject license allowing modified, combined with other software and redistributed, subject restrictions set forth the license. number commercial firms compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software end users nominal cost and earning revenue complementary services and products. These firms not bear the full costs research and development for the software. some cases, their products may infringe patents granted Microsoft for our inventions. the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, our sales, revenue, and operating margins may decline. important element our business model has been create platform-based ecosystems which many participants can build diverse solutions. competing vertically-integrated model, which single firm controls both the software and hardware elements product, has been successful with certain consumer products such personal computers, mobile phones, and digital music players. also offer vertically-integrated hardware and software products; however, efforts compete with the vertically integrated model may increase our cost sales and reduce our operating margins. face intense competition. continue experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors range size from Fortune companies small, specialized single-product businesses and open source community-based projects. Although believe the breadth our businesses and product portfolio competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused narrower product lines may more effective devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources compete with . addition, barriers entry our businesses generally are low and products, once developed, can distributed broadly and quickly relatively low cost. Open source software vendors are devoting considerable efforts developing software that mimics the features and functionality our products, some cases violation our intellectual property rights the basis technical specifications for Microsoft technologies that make available little cost PART Item connection with our interoperability initiatives. response competition, continue develop versions our products with basic functionality that are sold lower prices than the standard versions. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. may not able adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use software and other intellectual property difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. result, our revenue these markets likely will grow slower than the underlying market. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail enhance revenue. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. resolve these claims may enter into royalty and licensing agreements less favorable terms, stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Such agreements may cause operating margins decline. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. This could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code also could increase the security risks described the next paragraph. Security vulnerabilities our products and services could lead reduced revenues liability claims. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks critical issue for and our customers. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and gain access our networks and data centers. Although this industry-wide problem that affects computers across all platforms, affects our products particular because hackers tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems and programs and expect them continue . devote significant resources address security vulnerabilities through: \x95 engineering more secure products and services; \x95 enhancing security and reliability features our products and services; \x95 helping our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks; \x95 improving the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities; \x95 investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed; and \x95 providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such firewalls and anti-virus software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future PART Item purchases, use competing products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. addition, third parties gain access our networks data centers they could obtain and exploit confidential business information and harm our competitive position. Finally, actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. store and process large amounts personally identifiable information sell software, provide support and offer cloud-based services customers. possible that our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information. Improper disclosure this information could harm our reputation, lead legal exposure customers, subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers store and process personal data. Perceptions that our products services not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products services. may experience outages, data loss and disruptions our online services fail maintain adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic and complexity our products and services demand more computing power. have spent and expect continue spend substantial amounts purchase lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure handle increased traffic our Web sites and our data centers, and introduce new products and services and support existing services such Bing, Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, Xbox LIVE, Windows Live, and Microsoft Office Web Apps. also are growing our business providing platform and back-end hosting for services provided third-party businesses their end customers. Maintaining and expanding this infrastructure expensive and complex. Inefficiencies operational failures, including temporary permanent loss customer data, could diminish the quality our products, services, and user experience resulting contractual liability, claims customers and other third parties, damage our reputation and loss current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each which may harm our operating results and financial condition. are subject government litigation and regulatory activity that affects how design and market our products. leading global software maker, receive close scrutiny from government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights action for competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. For example, have been involved the following actions. Lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions were resolved through Consent Decree that took effect and Final Judgment entered . These proceedings imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. These constraints include limits certain contracting practices, mandated disclosure certain software program interfaces and protocols, and rights for computer manufacturers limit the visibility certain Windows features new PCs. believe are full compliance with these rules. However, fail comply with them, additional restrictions could imposed that would adversely affect our business. The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design high-volume Microsoft products and the terms which make certain technologies used these products, such file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available other companies. , the Commission ordered create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies and provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. , the Commission accepted set commitments offered Microsoft address the Commission\x92 concerns relating competition Web browsing software. The Commission\x92 impact product design may limit our ability innovate Windows other products the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability licenses related protocols and file formats may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality our own products which could result decreased sales our products. PART Item Government regulatory actions and court decisions such these may hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenues that come from them. New actions could initiated any time, either these other governments private claimants, including with respect new versions Windows other Microsoft products. The outcome such actions, steps taken avoid them, could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products comply with government rulings, which may entail delay product release and removing functionality that customers want which developers rely. \x95 may required make available licenses our proprietary technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. \x95 The rulings described above may cited precedent other competition law proceedings. Our software and services online offerings are subject government regulation the Internet domestically and internationally many areas, including user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs require changes business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that stop the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus cloud-based software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays new product service releases significant problems creating new products services could adversely affect our revenue. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. Our growth depends our ability innovate offering new, and adding value our existing, software and service offerings. will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Xbox , Bing, Windows Server, Zune, Windows Live, the Windows Azure Services platform, and other cloud-based services offerings. Investments new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Our degree success with Windows Phone, for example, will impact our ability grow share the smartphone operating system market. will also important factor supporting our strategy delivering value end users seamlessly over , phone, and device classes. customers not perceive our latest offerings providing significant new functionality other value, they may reduce their purchases new software products upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Unfavorable changes economic conditions, including inflation, recession, other changes economic conditions, may result lower information technology spending and adversely affect our revenue. demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, consumer business spending for those products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Our product distribution PART Item system also relies extensive partner network. The impact economic conditions our partners, such the bankruptcy major distributor, could result sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability our customers pay for products and services they have purchased. result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs accounts receivable may increase. maintain investment portfolio various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may exacerbated unusual events that have affected global financial markets. global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods decline, our investment portfolio may adversely impacted and could determine that more our investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all these claims may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. Although management currently believes resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial statements, the litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. material adverse impact our financial statements also could occur for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. regularly are under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our financial statements the period periods for which that determination made. earn significant amount our operating income from outside the ., and any repatriation funds currently held foreign jurisdictions may result higher effective tax rates for the company. addition, there have been proposals change . tax laws that would significantly impact how . multinational corporations are taxed foreign earnings. Although cannot predict whether what form this proposed legislation will pass, enacted could have material adverse impact our tax expense and cash flow. Our vertically-integrated hardware and software products may experience quality supply problems. Our hardware products such the Xbox console are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture, associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm fail detect effectively address such issues through design, testing, warranty repairs. obtain some components our hardware devices from sole suppliers. component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting reduced sales. Either component shortages excess obsolete inventory may increase our cost revenue. Xbox consoles are assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. These same risks would apply any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products may offer. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94), review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Goodwill tested for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances, indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable, include decline stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively impacting our results operations. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside PART Item , , the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. Emerging markets are significant focus our international growth strategy. The developing nature these markets presents number risks. Deterioration social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations financial results. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. Catastrophic events geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations the event major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services, performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could harm our ability conduct normal business operations and our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. The long-term effects climate change the global economy general the information technology industry particular are unclear. Environmental regulations changes the supply, demand available sources energy may affect the availability cost goods and services, including natural resources, necessary run our business. Changes weather where operate may increase the costs powering and cooling computer hardware use develop software and provide cloud-based services. New regulations may require find alternative compliant and cost-effective methods distributing our products and services. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return our investment, that experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results financial condition. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office space located King County, Washington: ten million square feet owned space situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus Redmond, Washington and approximately five million square feet space lease. own approximately two million additional square feet office and datacenter space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately four million square feet office and datacenter space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately two million square feet that owned and approximately nine million square feet that leased. International facilities that own include our India Development Center Hyderabad, India; the European Operations Center Dublin, Ireland; Research and Development Campus Shaghai, China; and facilities Reading and Atherstone, . The largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan; Unterschleissheim, Germany; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; Bangalore, India; Reading, ; Vedbaek, Denmark; and Mississauga, Canada. addition the above locations, have disk duplication and digital distribution facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters, and various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described the \x93Research and Development\x94 section Item this Form - . PART , Item , , , Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available accommodate expansion needs. have development agreement with the City Redmond under which may currently develop approximately million square feet additional facilities our corporate campus Redmond, Washington. addition, own acres undeveloped land Issaquah, Washington, that can accommodate approximately one million square feet office space. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding legal proceedings which are involved. PART ', 'item 4. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended September December March June Fiscal Year Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding dividends and share repurchases. ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , ( ) $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , ( ) $ , $ , Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term obligations $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , $ , Stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes $ billion convertible debt securities issued June and $ billion debt securities issued May . See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) Includes $ billion debt securities issued May . See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) Includes charge $ billion ( \x80 million) related the fine imposed the European Commission February . PART Item ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (\x93Notes\x94). generate revenue developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services for many different types computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for personal computers, servers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. provide consulting and product and solution support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. also design and sell hardware, including the Xbox gaming and entertainment console and accessories, the Zune digital music and entertainment device and accessories, and Microsoft hardware products. Online offerings and information are delivered consumers through Bing, Windows Live, Microsoft Office Web Apps, our MSN portals and channels, and businesses through Microsoft Online Services offerings, such Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Exchange Online, Windows Azure, SQL Azure and SharePoint Online. enable the delivery online advertising across our broad range digital media properties and Bing through our proprietary adCenter platform. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division particularly seasonal its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately % its annual segment revenues our second fiscal quarter. addition, quarterly revenues may impacted the deferral revenue. See the discussions below regarding the deferral revenue related eligible sales the Microsoft Office system with guarantee upgraded the Microsoft Office system minimal cost (the \x93Office Deferral\x94) and sales Windows Vista with guarantee upgraded Windows minimal cost and Windows original equipment manufacturers and retailers before general availability (the \x93Windows Deferral\x94). Global macroeconomic factors have strong correlation demand for our software, services, hardware, and online offerings. The unfavorable global economic environment adversely affected our business fiscal year consumers and businesses cut back spending, which reduced shipments and investments. During fiscal year , the environment began improve. However, the current macroeconomic factors remain dynamic and uncertain and are likely remain into . Irrespective global economic conditions, are positive about our relative market position, our current product portfolio and future product pipeline. Because offer wide range products and services that enable companies improve productivity and reduce costs, including cloud-based services, believe that Microsoft well-positioned create new opportunities increase revenue the global economy improves. remain focused executing the areas can control continuing provide high value products the lowest total cost ownership while managing our expenses. Technological innovation the foundation our long-term growth and intend maintain our commitment investment research and development, engineering excellence, and delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. continue develop innovative software applications and solutions that believe will enhance information worker productivity, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain growth the face competition from other vendors proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 software that easiest deploy and manage, and that most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. PART Item addition, continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, including cloud computing, search, online solutions, business solutions, mobile computing, communication, entertainment, and other areas that believe may contribute our long-term growth. also invest research and development advanced technologies for future software products. believe that delivering innovative and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. This long-term focus investment research and development has enabled lay foundation for future growth delivering innovative products, creating opportunities for partners, and improving customer satisfaction. Our focus fiscal year build this foundation and continue execute well key areas through ongoing innovation our integrated software platform, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and focusing internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Summary Results for Fiscal Years , , and ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating income $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ % ( )% Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue increased mainly due strong sales Windows , which was released during fiscal year , and market improvement. Operating income increased reflecting the change revenue, offset part higher operating expenses. \x95 Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing Windows and Bing and increased sales force expenses related Windows . \x95 General and administrative expenses increased $ million % due mainly increased legal charges and transition expenses associated with the inception the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement, offset part reduction headcount-related expenses. \x95 Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased online costs and charges resulting from the discontinuation the KIN phone, offset part decreased Xbox console costs and reductions other costs due resource management efforts. \x95 Research and development expenses decreased $ million %, primarily reflecting decrease third-party development and programming costs and increased capitalization certain software development costs. Diluted earnings per share increased reflecting increased net income and the repurchase million shares during fiscal year . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue declined across most segments primarily driven weakness the global market and the unfavorable economic environment. Primary factors contributing the decline include the following: \x95 Revenue from Windows operating systems declined reflecting market weakness, especially PCs sold businesses. \x95 Revenue from our Entertainment and Devices Division decreased across most lines business including Xbox platform and game revenue which declined primarily result decreased revenue per console due price reductions during the prior months, partially offset increased console sales and Xbox LIVE revenue. PART Item The above declines were partially offset increased server and server application revenue, reflecting recognition deferred revenue from previously signed agreements and continued adoption the Windows Server Platform and applications through SQL Server, Enterprise CAL Suites, and System Center products. Foreign currency exchange rates had favorable impact $ million revenue. Operating income decreased primarily reflecting decreased revenue. Operating expenses were flat with decreased general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses offset increased headcount-related expenses, cost revenue, and employee severance charges. \x95 General and administrative expenses decreased $ billion %, primarily due decreased costs for legal settlements and contingencies. incurred $ million legal charges during the twelve months ended June , compared $ billion during the twelve months ended June , . The prior year costs were primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million). \x95 Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, primarily driven the resource management program. part that program, reduced marketing and advertising expenses. \x95 Headcount-related expenses, excluding $ million employee severance charges, increased %, driven % increase headcount during the past months and increase salaries and benefits for existing headcount. \x95 Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased online costs, including online traffic acquisition, data center and equipment, and headcount-related costs, partially offset decreased Xbox platform costs. January , announced and implemented resource management program reduce discretionary operating expenses, employee headcount, and capital expenditures. part this program, announced the elimination , positions research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology June , . During fiscal year , recorded employee severance charges $ million for the expected reduction employee headcount. Diluted earnings per share declined primarily reflecting decreased net income, partially offset share repurchases during the prior months. repurchased million shares during fiscal year . SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The revenue and operating income (loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted the . (\x93 . GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. Segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) presented basis consistent with our current internal management reporting. Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from segment operating results and analyzed separately. have recast certain prior period amounts within this & conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during the current fiscal year, including moving Windows Live from Online Services Division Windows & Windows Live Division, and Razorfish from Online Services Division Corporate. Razorfish was sold during the second quarter fiscal year . Windows & Windows Live Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating income $ , $ , $ , % ( )% PART Item Windows & Windows Live Division (\x93Windows Division\x94) offerings consist premium and standard edition Windows operating systems and online software and services through Windows Live. Premium Windows operating systems are those that include additional functionality and are sold price above our standard editions. Premium editions include Windows Home Premium, Windows Professional, Windows Ultimate, Windows Enterprise, Windows Vista Business, Windows Vista Home Premium, Windows Vista Ultimate, and Windows Vista Enterprise. Standard editions include Windows Starter, Windows Home Basic, Windows Vista Starter, Windows Vista Home Basic, and Windows Home. Windows Live primarily generates revenue from online advertising. Windows Division revenue growth largely correlated the growth purchases from original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94) that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for approximately % total Windows Division revenue. The remaining approximately % Windows Division revenue (\x93other revenue\x94) generated commercial and retail sales Windows and online advertising from Windows Live. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Windows Division revenue increased primarily result strong sales Windows and market improvement. estimate total shipments from all sources grew approximately % %. OEM revenue increased $ billion %, while OEM license units increased %. The OEM revenue increase was driven market growth, higher Windows attach rates across consumer and business segments, the restoration normal OEM inventory levels, and the mix versions Windows licensed, offset part market changes, including stronger growth emerging markets versus developed markets and consumer PCs versus business PCs. Fiscal year OEM revenue reflects $ million Windows Deferral, discussed under Overview and Outlook above. This amount was subsequently recognized fiscal year . Other revenue increased $ million % driven primarily Windows retail sales. Windows Division operating income increased result increased revenue, offset part higher operating expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven royalties and other product costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million % reflecting increased advertising and marketing Windows . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Windows Division revenue decreased primarily result market weakness, especially PCs sold businesses. OEM revenue decreased $ billion % while OEM license units declined %. Based our estimates, total worldwide shipments from all sources experienced decline approximately % growth approximately %, driven changes demand emerging and developed markets. Windows Division operating income decreased primarily reflecting decreased revenue and increased sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools licenses products, applications, tools, content, and delivers Enterprise Services, all which are designed make information technology professionals, developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server and Tools product and service offerings consist Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Azure PART Item and other cloud and server offerings. also offer developer tools, training and certification. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server product offerings can run -site, partner-hosted environment, Microsoft-hosted environment. use multiple sales channels, including pre-installed OEM versions, sales through partners and sales directly end customers. Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes from annuity volume licensing agreements, approximately % purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold OEMs, and the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased mainly reflecting growth product revenue. Product revenue increased $ million %, driven primarily growth Windows Server, SQL Server and Enterprise CAL Suites revenue, reflecting increased revenue from annuity volume licensing agreements and continued adoption Windows platform applications, offset part decline developer tools revenue. Enterprise Services revenue was relatively flat, with growth Premier product support services nearly offset decreased consulting services. Server and Tools operating income increased due mainly revenue growth and reduced research and development expenses, offset part increased cost revenue. Research and development expenses decreased $ million %, primarily driven reduced third-party development and programming costs and headcount-related expenses, offset part increased hosting, localization and lab costs. Cost revenue increased $ million. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth both product and services revenue. Product revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven growth SQL Server, Enterprise CAL Suites, and System Center revenue. This growth reflects recognition deferred revenue from previously signed agreements and continued adoption the Windows Server Platform and applications. Enterprise Services revenue increased $ million %, primarily due revenue from annuity support agreements. Server and Tools revenue included favorable foreign currency exchange impact $ million. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due growth product revenue, partially offset increased research and development expenses and cost revenue. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increased headcount-related expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million %, reflecting the growth support, online, and consulting services. Online Services Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( ) ( )% ( )% Online Services Division (\x93OSD\x94) offerings include Bing, MSN, and advertiser and publisher tools. Yahoo! Commercial Agreement December , , entered into definitive agreement with Yahoo! whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! Web sites. believe this agreement will allow over time improve the effectiveness and increase the value our search offering through greater scale search PART Item queries and expanded and more competitive search and advertising marketplace. See Note \x96 Commitments and Guarantees the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for additional information about the agreement. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSD revenue increased reflecting increased online advertising revenue, offset part decreased Access revenue. Online advertising revenue increased $ million % $ billion, reflecting higher search and display advertising revenue, offset part decreased advertiser and publisher tools revenue. Access revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting continued migration subscribers broadband other competitively-priced service providers. OSD operating loss increased due increased operating expenses, offset part increased revenue. Cost revenue increased $ million, primarily driven higher online traffic acquisition costs and Yahoo! reimbursement and implementation costs. General and administrative expenses increased $ million. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million % due mainly increased marketing Bing, offset part decreased headcount-related expenses. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year OSD revenue decreased primarily result decreased Access revenue, partially offset increased online advertising revenue. Access revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting continued migration subscribers broadband other competitively-priced service providers. Online advertising revenue increased $ million $ billion, reflecting increase search revenue, partially offset decrease display advertising revenue. OSD revenue included unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact $ million. OSD operating loss increased due increased cost revenue and research and development expenses, and decreased revenue. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily driven increased online traffic acquisition, data center and equipment, and headcount-related costs. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily due increased headcount-related expenses. Microsoft Business Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Microsoft Office system offerings generate over % MBD revenue. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. evaluate our results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue; and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue decreased primarily result the net deferral $ million revenue related eligible sales the Microsoft Office system with guarantee upgraded the Microsoft Office system minimal cost (the \x93Office Deferral\x94). Consumer revenue decreased $ million %, primarily due the Office Deferral, offset part growth the market and sales the Microsoft Office system, which was launched during the fourth quarter. Business revenue decreased $ million %, primarily reflecting decline licensing the Microsoft Office system transactional business customers, offset part growth multi-year volume licensing agreement revenue and licensing the Microsoft Office system transactional business customers. Microsoft Dynamics revenue was flat. MBD operating income increased due mainly decreased operating expenses, offset part decreased revenue. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, primarily driven decrease corporate marketing activities. Research and development expenses decreased $ million %, primarily result capitalization certain Microsoft Office system software development costs and lower headcount-related expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $ million % primarily due expenses the prior year associated with the acquisition Fast Search & Transfer ASA (\x93FAST\x94) and lower headcount-related expenses. These decreases were offset part $ million % increase cost revenue, primarily driven increased traffic acquisition costs and increased costs providing services. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue was flat reflecting increased business revenue offset decreased consumer revenue. Business revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting growth volume licensing agreement revenue and included % decrease Microsoft Dynamics customer billings. The growth volume licensing agreement revenue primarily reflects recognition deferred revenue from previously signed agreements. Consumer revenue decreased $ million %, primarily result market weakness, shift lower-priced products, and pricing promotions the Microsoft Office system. MBD revenue included favorable foreign currency exchange impact $ million. MBD operating income decreased reflecting increased cost revenue and research and development expenses, partially offset decreased sales and marketing expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million % primarily driven expenses associated with FAST, which acquired April , well online services infrastructure costs. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily driven increase headcount-related expenses associated with FAST. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, primarily driven decrease corporate marketing activities and headcount-related costs associated with our corporate sales force. Entertainment and Devices Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating income $ $ $ % ( )% Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) offerings include the Xbox platform (which includes the Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Xbox video games, Xbox LIVE, and Xbox accessories), the Zune digital music and entertainment platform (\x93Zune\x94), software games, online games and services, Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), Windows Phone and Windows Embedded device platforms, application software for Apple\x92 Macintosh computers, Microsoft hardware products, and other devices. EDD also responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and Windows operating systems. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue was nearly flat reflecting increased revenue from the non-gaming portion the business, partially offset decreased revenue from Xbox platform and games. Non-gaming revenue increased $ million % primarily reflecting increased sales Windows Embedded device platforms, offset part decreased Zune and Windows Phone revenue. Xbox platform and game revenue decreased $ million, primarily reflecting reduction Xbox consoles sold and revenue per console, offset part increased Xbox LIVE revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during the fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . EDD operating income increased due reduced operating expenses. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, primarily due lower Xbox console costs, offset part increased royalty costs resulting from increased Xbox LIVE digital marketplace third-party content sales and charges resulting from the discontinuation the KIN phone. Research and development expenses decreased $ million %, primarily reflecting decreased third-party development and programming costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue decreased across most lines business. Revenue from our non-gaming business decreased $ million %, primarily reflecting decreased Zune and hardware product revenue. Xbox platform and game revenue decreased $ million %, primarily result decreased revenue per Xbox console due price reductions during the past months, partially offset increased Xbox console sales and increased Xbox LIVE revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . EDD revenue included unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact $ million. EDD operating income decreased primarily due decreased revenue and increased research and development expenses, partially offset decreased cost revenue. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting increased headcount-related expenses associated with the Windows Phone device platform, driven recent acquisitions. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, primarily due decreased Xbox platform costs. Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Corporate-level activity $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) % % Certain corporate-level activity not allocated our segments, including costs : broad-based sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; legal settlements and contingencies; and employee severance. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses decreased due mainly employee severance charges $ million incurred the prior year, decreased partner payments, and reductions other costs due resource management efforts. These decreases expenses were offset part increase legal charges and costs associated with broad-based sales and marketing activities. Legal charges were approximately $ million compared $ million the prior year. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses decreased during fiscal year , primarily reflecting decreased general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses, partially offset employee severance charges $ million. General and administrative expenses decreased $ billion %, primarily due decreased costs for legal settlements and contingencies. incurred $ million legal charges during fiscal year compared $ billion during fiscal year . The prior year costs were primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million). Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, reflecting the resource management program implemented January . OPERATING EXPENSES Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt 2ppt Cost revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold OEMs, drive traffic our Web sites and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94); costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized research and development costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased reflecting higher online costs, mainly Yahoo! reimbursement and implementation costs and traffic acquisition costs, well increased royalty costs resulting from increased Xbox LIVE digital marketplace third-party content sales and charges resulting from the discontinuation the KIN phone. For the current fiscal year, these costs were offset part lower Xbox console costs and reductions other costs due resource management efforts. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased during fiscal year , primarily reflecting increased online costs, including traffic acquisition, data center and equipment, and headcount costs, partially offset decreased Xbox platform costs. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , ( )% % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt 1ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets and the amortization purchased software code and services content. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses decreased, primarily reflecting decreased third-party development and programming costs and the capitalization certain Microsoft Office system software development costs. These decreases were offset part the capitalization certain software and development costs related Windows product development the prior year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased during fiscal year , primarily reflecting % increase headcount-related costs. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % ( )ppt 0ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses increased, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing Windows and Bing and increased sales force expenses related Windows . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses decreased, primarily driven the resource management program implemented January . General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % 0ppt ( )ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses increased due increased legal charges, discussed above within Corporate-Level Activity, and transition expenses associated with the inception the Yahoo! Commercial Agreement. These increases were offset part % reduction headcount-related expenses. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses decreased primarily reflecting decreased costs for legal settlements and legal contingencies. incurred legal charges $ million fiscal year , compared with $ billion during fiscal year . The fiscal year legal costs were primarily related the European Commission fine $ billion ( \x80 million). Employee Severance January , announced and implemented resource management program reduce employee headcount. completed this program fiscal year , reducing our overall headcount approximately , various functions, including research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology. During fiscal years and , recorded employee severance expense $ million and $ million, respectively. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) AND INCOME TAXES Other Income (Expense) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Dividends and interest income $ $ $ % ( )% Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )% % Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( ) * * Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) ( ) % * Net gains (losses) foreign currency remeasurements ( ) * * Other ( ) ( ) * % Total $ $ ( ) $ , * * * Not meaningful use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are recognized other income (expense). These are generally offset unrealized gains and losses the underlying securities the investment portfolio and are recorded component other comprehensive income. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income increased primarily due higher average portfolio investment balances, offset part lower yields our fixed-income investments. Interest expense increased due our issuance long term debt May . Net recognized gains investments increased primarily due lower other-than-temporary impairments, offset part lower gains sales investments the current period. Other-than-temporary impairments were $ million during fiscal year , compared with $ million during fiscal year and decreased primarily due improvements market conditions. Net losses derivatives decreased due gains equity and interest rate derivatives compared losses the prior period and lower losses commodity and foreign currency contracts the current period. Net gains from foreign currency remeasurements were insignificant fiscal year compared net losses $ million the prior year, which had resulted from the strengthening the . dollar the prior year. For fiscal year , other includes gain the divestiture Razorfish. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income decreased primarily reflecting lower interest rates our fixed-income investments. Interest expense decreased due lower average collateral balances loaned securities and related rates. Net recognized losses investments increased primarily due higher other-than-temporary impairments that were partially offset gains sales certain equity investments held our strategic investments portfolio. Other-than- temporary impairments were $ million during fiscal year , compared with $ million during fiscal year and increased primarily due declines equity values result deterioration equity markets. Net losses derivatives increased primarily due losses equity, commodity, and interest rate derivatives fiscal year compared with gains the prior period. Net losses foreign currency remeasurements increased due the strengthening the . dollar, particularly the first half the fiscal year . Income Taxes Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rates fiscal years and were % and %, respectively. The fiscal year rate reflects higher mix foreign earnings taxed lower rates. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rates fiscal years and were % and %, respectively. While the fiscal year rate reflects higher mix foreign earnings taxed lower rates, the rate increased from the prior year because the fiscal year rate reflects the resolution tax positions relating our agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) settling the - examination, partially offset the European Commission fine which was not tax deductible. result the settlement and the impact subsequent years, paid the IRS approximately $ billion during fiscal year . FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Our short-term investments are primarily facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly investment grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly . dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities order diversify risk. general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities determine fair value. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and . treasuries. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available determine fair value, then use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments such corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and agency securities. Level investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are immaterial portion our portfolio. majority our investments are priced pricing vendors and are generally Level Level investments these vendors either provide quoted market price active market use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing used mainly when quoted price not available, the investment not priced our pricing vendors, when broker price more reflective fair values the market which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally labeled Level investments because the broker prices these investments based similar assets without applying significant adjustments. addition, all PART Item our broker-priced investments have sufficient level trading volume demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review key model inputs, analysis period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation prices where appropriate. While own certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio June , does not contain direct exposure subprime mortgages structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority the mortgage-backed securities are collateralized prime residential mortgages and carry % principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Debt September , our Board Directors authorized debt financings $ billion. June , , had $ billion issued and outstanding debt comprised $ billion commercial paper and $ billion long-term debt including $ billion convertible debt. Short-term Debt June , , our $ billion commercial paper issued and outstanding had weighted average interest rate, including issuance costs, % and maturities days. November , replaced our $ billion and $ billion credit facilities with $ billion -day credit facility, which expires November , . This facility serves back- for our commercial paper program. June , reduced the size our credit facility from $ billion $ billion due the reduction commercial paper outstanding. June , , were compliance with the financial covenant the credit facility agreement, which requires coverage ratio maintained least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense. amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any the periods presented. Long-term Debt Notes June , , had issued and outstanding $ billion debt securities follows: $ billion aggregate principal amount % notes due , $ billion aggregate principal amount % notes due , and $ million aggregate principal amount % notes due (collectively \x93the Notes\x94). Interest the Notes payable semi-annually June and December each year holders record the preceding May and November . The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. Convertible Debt June , issued $ billion zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due June , private placement offering. Proceeds from the offering were $ billion, net fees and expenses which were capitalized. The majority the proceeds were used repay outstanding commercial paper, leaving $ billion commercial paper outstanding June , . Each $ , principal amount notes convertible into shares Microsoft common stock conversion price $ per share. PART Item Prior March , , the notes will convertible, only certain circumstances, into cash and, applicable, cash, shares Microsoft\x92 common stock combination thereof, our election. after March , , the notes will convertible any time. Upon conversion, will pay cash the aggregate principal amount the notes and pay deliver cash, shares our common stock combination cash and shares our common stock, our election. Because the convertible debt may wholly partially settled cash, are required separately account for the liability and equity components the notes manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized subsequent periods. The net proceeds $ billion were allocated between debt for $ billion and stockholders\x92 equity for $ million, with the portion stockholders\x92 equity representing the fair value the option convert the debt. connection with the issuance the notes, entered into capped call transactions with certain option counterparties who are initial purchasers the notes their affiliates. The capped call transactions are expected reduce potential dilution earnings per share upon conversion the notes. Under the capped call transactions, purchased from the option counterparties capped call options that the aggregate relate the total number shares our common stock underlying the notes, with strike price equal the conversion price the notes and with cap price initially equal $ . The purchased capped calls were valued $ million and were charged stockholders\x92 equity. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue June , comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either inception the agreement annually the beginning each billing coverage period and accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Unearned revenue June , also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, Xbox LIVE subscriptions; unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis for Windows ; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; technology guarantee programs, including the Microsoft Office technology guarantee program; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Three Months Ending, September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Total $ , Cash Flows Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flow from operations increased $ billion, primarily due payment $ billion the Internal Revenue Service the prior year result our settlement the - audit examination along with increased cash received from customers the current year. Cash used for financing increased $ billion, primarily due $ billion decrease net cash proceeds from issuance and repayments short-term and long-term debt. Financing activities also included $ billion increase cash used for common stock repurchases, which was offset part PART Item $ billion increase cash received from common stock issued. Cash used for investing decreased $ billion due $ billion decrease cash used for combined investment purchases, sales, and maturities along with $ billion decrease additions property and equipment. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flow from operations decreased $ billion due payment approximately $ billion the IRS connection with our settlement the - audit examination. This impact was partially offset the fiscal year payment the $ billion ( \x80 million) European Commission fine. Cash used for financing decreased $ billion primarily due $ billion net cash proceeds from issuance short-term and long-term debt fiscal year . Financing activities also included $ billion decrease common stock repurchased, which was offset $ billion decline common stock issued. Cash used for investing increased $ billion due $ billion rise purchases investments along with $ billion decrease cash from investment sales and maturities. These impacts were partially offset $ billion decrease cash paid for acquisition companies, including the purchase aQuantive fiscal year . Share Repurchases September , , announced the completion the two repurchase programs approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year (the \x93 Programs\x94) buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. September , , also announced that our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , (the \x93 Program\x94). June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without notice. During the periods reported, repurchased with cash resources: million shares for $ billion during fiscal year ; million shares for $ billion during fiscal year ; and million shares for $ billion during fiscal year . All shares repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the Program, while all shares repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the Programs. the shares repurchased fiscal year , million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the Programs, while the remainder were repurchased under the Program. Dividends During fiscal years and , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluating PART Item estimated losses these indemnifications, consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and our ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations June , . expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash flows from operations. ( millions) - - and Thereafter Total Long-term debt: ( ) Principal payments $ $ , $ $ , $ , Interest payments , Construction commitments ( ) Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , , Other long-term liabilities ( ) Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ $ , $ , ( ) See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) ( ) These amounts represent commitments for the construction buildings, building improvements and leasehold improvements. ( ) These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities leases. ( ) These amounts represent purchase commitments, including all open purchase orders and all contracts that are take- -pay contracts that are not presented construction commitments above. ( ) have excluded long-term tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ billion and other long-term contingent liabilities $ million (related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits) from the amounts presented, the amounts that will settled cash are not known and the timing any payments uncertain. have also excluded unearned revenue $ billion and non-cash items $ million. Other Planned Uses Capital will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability capital resources. believe existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should sufficient meet operating requirements, regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. PART Item result the special dividend paid the second quarter fiscal year and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected affect our future ability operate, pay dividends, repay our debt given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. RECENT LEGISLATION March , the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into law the United States. This legislation expands health care coverage many uninsured individuals and expands coverage those already insured. The changes required this legislation will largely funded through tax increases both insurers and the insured. not expect any near term impact our financial results result the legislation. One provision that will impact certain companies significantly the elimination the tax deductibility the Medicare Part subsidy. This provision does not affect because not provide retiree health benefits. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements January , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued guidance amend the disclosure requirements related recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires new disclosures the transfers assets and liabilities between Level (quoted prices active market for identical assets liabilities) and Level (significant other observable inputs) the fair value measurement hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing the transfers. Additionally, the guidance requires roll forward activities purchases, sales, issuance, and settlements the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level fair value measurements). The guidance became effective for with the reporting period beginning January , , except for the disclosure the roll forward activities for Level fair value measurements, which will become effective for with the reporting period beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, adoption this new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. July , , adopted guidance issued the FASB business combinations. The guidance retains the fundamental requirements that the acquisition method accounting (previously referred the purchase method accounting) used for all business combinations, but requires number changes, including changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized and measured result business combinations. also requires the capitalization -process research and development fair value and requires the expensing acquisition-related costs incurred. have applied this guidance business combinations completed since July , . July , , adopted guidance issued the FASB that changes the accounting and reporting for non-controlling interests. Non-controlling interests are reported component equity separate from the parent\x92 equity, and purchases sales equity interests that not result change control are accounted for equity transactions. addition, net income attributable non-controlling interest included net income and, upon loss control, the interest sold, well any interest retained, recorded fair value with any gain loss recognized net income. Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. July , , adopted guidance fair value measurement for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted October , the FASB issued guidance revenue recognition that will become effective for beginning July , . Under the new guidance arrangements that include software elements, tangible products that have software components that are essential the functionality the tangible product will longer within the scope PART Item the software revenue recognition guidance, and software-enabled products will now subject other relevant revenue recognition guidance. Additionally, the FASB issued guidance revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that are outside the scope the software revenue recognition guidance. Under the new guidance, when vendor specific objective evidence third party evidence for deliverables arrangement cannot determined, best estimate the selling price required separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. The new guidance includes new disclosure requirements how the application the relative selling price method affects the timing and amount revenue recognition. believe adoption this new guidance will not have material impact our financial statements. June , the FASB issued guidance the consolidation variable interest entities, which effective for beginning July , . The new guidance requires revised evaluations whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. believe adoption this new guidance will not have material impact our financial statements. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94). Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, stock-based compensation, and product warranties. Revenue Recognition Software revenue recognition requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. portion revenue may recorded unearned due undelivered elements. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the VSOE fair value for those elements using the residual method relative fair value method, and the deferred revenue recognized the elements are delivered. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. portion the revenue related Windows recorded unearned due the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. Revenue related Windows Vista and Windows not subject similar deferral because there are significant undelivered elements. Microsoft Office system revenue subject deferral result the Microsoft Office system technology guarantee program, which started March , . This program allows customers who purchased certain versions the Microsoft Office system receive upgrade the corresponding version the Microsoft Office system minimal cost when the product becomes generally available. Accordingly, estimated revenue related the undelivered Microsoft Office system deferred until the product delivered. Impairment Investment Securities Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. PART Item also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. Goodwill Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, estimation the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the business combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. addition the impairment test performed May , , performed interim impairment analysis our Online Services Division goodwill balance during the first quarter fiscal year connection with the disposal Razorfish. impairment goodwill was identified. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product are charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs are capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax PART Item position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position should measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial statements. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the fair value the award and recognized expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value stock-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount stock-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could impacted. Product Warranties provide for the estimated costs hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranty, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranty, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. PART Item STATEMENT MANAGEMENT\x92 RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Peter . Klein Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PART Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS are exposed economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. portion these risks hedged, but they may impact our financial statements. Foreign Currency. Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Interest Rate. Our fixed-income portfolio diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily investment-grade securities. The credit risk and average maturity the fixed-income portfolio managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency and mortgage-backed securities. Equity. Our equity portfolio consists global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject market price risk. manage the securities relative certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. Commodity. use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our investment portfolio has exposure variety commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. manage these exposures relative global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. VALUE- -RISK use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, the fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94), but used risk estimation and management tool. The distribution the potential changes total market value all holdings computed based the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. The VaR calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions June , and and for the year ended June , : ( millions) June , June , Year Ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Foreign currency $ $ $ $ $ Interest rate $ $ $ $ $ Equity $ $ $ $ $ Commodity $ $ $ $ $ Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , , and % less June , , than the sum the separate risk categories the above table due the diversification benefit the combination risks. PART Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Employee severance Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income (expense) ( ) , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PART Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities loaned $ and $ , ) , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net accumulated depreciation $ , and $ , , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net , , Deferred income taxes Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Short-term debt , , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operations: Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized losses (gains) investments and derivatives ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) Deferral unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) , ( , ) Other current assets ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities , ( , ) ( ) Other long-term liabilities , , ( ) Net cash from operations , , , Financing Short-term borrowings (repayments), maturities days less, net ( ) , Proceeds from issuance debt, maturities longer than days , , Repayments debt, maturities longer than days ( , ) ( ) Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends paid ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Other ( ) Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( ) ( ) ( , ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Securities lending payable ( , ) ( ) ( ) Net cash used investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect exchange rates cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net change cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( , ) , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock-based compensation income tax benefits (deficiencies) ( ) ( ) Other, net ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained deficit Balance, beginning period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle relating uncertain tax positions ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle relating costs certain compensated absences ( ) Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net unrealized gains derivatives Net unrealized gains (losses) investments ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE \x97 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments through which exercise significant influence over but not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary the investee\x92 activities are accounted for using the equity method. Investments through which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include: estimates loss contingencies, product warranties, product life cycles, product returns, and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates; assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded Other Comprehensive Income (\x93OCI\x94). Revenue Recognition Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), and perpetual licenses under certain volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped made available. portion the revenue related Windows deferred due the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated the unspecified upgrade enhancement rights for Microsoft Internet Explorer based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method relative fair value method and the deferred revenue recognized ratably straight-line basis over the Windows life cycle. Revenue related Windows Vista and Windows not subject similar deferral because there are significant undelivered elements. Revenue for products under the technology guarantee programs, which provide free significantly discounted rights use upcoming new versions software product end user licenses existing versions the product during the eligibility period, allocated between existing product and the new product, and revenue allocated the new product deferred until that version delivered. The revenue allocation based vendor-specific objective evidence fair value both products. PART Item Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis (\x93Software Assurance\x94) and are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Revenue from certain arrangements that allow for the use product service over period time without taking possession software are also accounted for subscriptions. Revenue related our Xbox gaming and entertainment console, games published , and other hardware components generally recognized when ownership transferred the retailers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when games are manufactured the game publishers. Display advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements recognized services are provided. Revenue generally recognized net any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted governmental authorities. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes; manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold OEMs, drive traffic our Web sites and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94); costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized research and development costs. Capitalized research and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives the products. Product Warranty provide for the estimated costs fulfilling our obligations under hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranties, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranties, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Such costs related software development are included research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility reached, which for our software products, generally shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Once technological feasibility reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized cost revenue over the estimated lives the products. PART Item Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. Employee Severance record employee severance when specific plan has been approved management, the plan has been communicated employees, and unlikely that significant changes will made the plan. Stock-Based Compensation measure stock-based compensation cost the grant date based the fair value the award and recognize expense over the applicable vesting period the stock award (generally four five years) using the straight-line method. Employee Stock Purchase Plan Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the stock the last day each three-month period. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan measured the discount the employee entitled upon purchase and recognized the period purchase. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested and interest and penalties uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. Fair Value Measurements account for certain assets and liabilities fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels fair value based the extent which inputs used measuring fair value are observable the market. categorize each our fair value measurements one these three levels based the lowest level input that significant the fair value measurement its entirety. These levels are: \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded active markets. Our Level non-derivative investments primarily include . treasuries, domestic and international equities, and actively traded mutual funds. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities include those actively traded exchanges. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques ( . the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant inputs are observable the market can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Where PART Item applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Our Level non-derivative investments consist primarily corporate notes and bonds, mortgage-backed securities, agency securities, certificates deposit, and commercial paper. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and swap contracts. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models. Our Level non-derivative assets primarily comprise investments certain corporate bonds. value these corporate bonds using internally developed valuation models, inputs which include interest rate curves, credit spreads, stock prices, and volatilities. Unobservable inputs used these models are significant the fair values the investments. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily comprise derivatives for foreign equities. certain cases, market-based observable inputs are not available and use management judgment develop assumptions determine fair value for these derivatives. measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, fair value nonrecurring basis when they are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired. The fair values these investments are determined based valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. Our current financial liabilities, including our short-term debt, have fair values that approximate their carrying values. Our long-term financial liabilities consist long-term debt which recorded the balance sheet issuance price less unamortized discount. Financial Instruments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair values these investments approximate their carrying values. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments classified long-term include both debt and equity instruments. Debt and publicly-traded equity securities are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost using the equity method. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loan securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. Fair value calculated based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, PART Item the investment. For fixed income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain (loss) recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For options designated fair-value hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments designated cash-flow hedges, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain (loss) initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure recognized earnings. For options designated cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains (losses) derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment effectiveness hedge ineffectiveness are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that are not designated hedges, gains (losses) from changes fair values are primarily recognized other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded component OCI until the securities are sold other-than-temporarily impaired, which time the amounts are moved from OCI into other income (expense). Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Charged costs and other Write-offs ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. PART Item Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. The estimated useful lives our property and equipment are generally follows: computer software developed acquired for internal use, three years; computer equipment, two three years; buildings and improvements, five years; leasehold improvements, two years; and furniture and equipment, one five years. Land not depreciated. Goodwill Goodwill tested for impairment using fair-value-based approach annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist. Intangible Assets All our intangible assets are subject amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically taking into account events circumstances that may warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate the asset may impaired. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements January , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued guidance amend the disclosure requirements related recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires new disclosures the transfers assets and liabilities between Level (quoted prices active market for identical assets liabilities) and Level (significant other observable inputs) the fair value measurement hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing the transfers. Additionally, the guidance requires roll forward activities purchases, sales, issuance, and settlements the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level fair value measurements). The guidance became effective for with the reporting period beginning January , , except for the disclosure the roll forward activities for Level fair value measurements, which will become effective for with the reporting period beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, adoption this new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. See Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements. July , , adopted guidance issued the FASB business combinations. The guidance retains the fundamental requirements that the acquisition method accounting (previously referred the purchase method accounting) used for all business combinations, but requires number changes, including changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized and measured result business combinations. also requires the capitalization -process research and development fair value and requires the expensing acquisition-related costs incurred. have applied this guidance business combinations completed since July , . July , , adopted guidance issued the FASB that changes the accounting and reporting for non-controlling interests. Non-controlling interests are reported component equity separate from the parent\x92 equity, and purchases sales equity interests that not result change control are accounted for equity transactions. addition, net income attributable non-controlling interest included net income and, upon loss control, the interest sold, well any interest retained, recorded fair value with any gain loss recognized net income. Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. July , , adopted guidance fair value measurement for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually). Adoption the new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. PART Item Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted October , the FASB issued guidance revenue recognition that will become effective for beginning July , . Under the new guidance arrangements that include software elements, tangible products that have software components that are essential the functionality the tangible product will longer within the scope the software revenue recognition guidance, and software-enabled products will now subject other relevant revenue recognition guidance. Additionally, the FASB issued guidance revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that are outside the scope the software revenue recognition guidance. Under the new guidance, when vendor specific objective evidence third party evidence for deliverables arrangement cannot determined, best estimate the selling price required separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. The new guidance includes new disclosure requirements how the application the relative selling price method affects the timing and amount revenue recognition. believe adoption this new guidance will not have material impact our financial statements. June , the FASB issued guidance the consolidation variable interest entities, which effective for beginning July , . The new guidance requires revised evaluations whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. believe adoption this new guidance will not have material impact our financial statements. NOTE \x97 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed based the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June , Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect stock-based awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings Per Share Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For fiscal years , , and , million, million, and million shares, respectively, were attributable outstanding stock-based awards and were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. June , issued $ billion zero-coupon debt securities that are convertible into shares our common stock certain conditions are met. Shares common stock into which the debt could convert were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. See also Note \x96 Debt. PART Item NOTE \x97 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains (losses) investments ( ) Net gains (losses) derivatives ( ) ( ) Net gains (losses) foreign currency remeasurements ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Total $ $ ( ) $ , Other-than-temporary impairments, which are included net recognized gains (losses) investments the table above, were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Realized gains and losses from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ million and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , $ billion and $ million, respectively, fiscal year , and $ million and $ million, respectively, fiscal year . NOTE \x97 INVESTMENTS Investment Components The components investments, including associated derivatives, were follows: ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds , , , Commercial paper Certificates deposit . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , Foreign government bonds Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities ( ) Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , , Other investments Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PART Item ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds , ( ) Commercial paper , , , Certificates deposit . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , , Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) , , Other investments ( ) Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Unrealized Losses Investments Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than months and months greater and their related fair values were follows: Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , . Government and Agency securities $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , Mutual funds $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , ( ) Foreign government bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) PART Item Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based our evaluation available evidence June , . June , and , the recorded bases and estimated fair values common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded were $ million and $ million, respectively. Debt Investment Maturities ( millions) Cost Basis Estimated Fair Value June , Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through years , , Due after years , , Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 DERIVATIVES use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. All notional amounts presented below are measured . currency equivalents. Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Option and forward contracts are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. June , and , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Foreign currency risks related certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments. June , and , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ million and $ billion, respectively. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments are also used manage the variability exchange rates accounts receivable, cash, and intercompany positions, and manage other foreign currency exposures. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Equity Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject market price risk. Market price risk managed relative broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated hedging instruments. From time time, hedge our price risk, may use and designate equity derivatives hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards. June , , the total notional amounts designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were immaterial. PART Item Interest Rate Securities held our fixed-income portfolio are subject different interest rate risks based their maturities. manage the average maturity our fixed-income portfolio achieve economic returns that correlate certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap and option contracts, none which are designated hedging instruments. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency mortgage-backed securities. These meet the definition derivative instrument cases where physical delivery the assets not taken the earliest available delivery date. June , and , the total notional derivative amount mortgage contracts purchased were immaterial and $ billion, respectively. Credit Our fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment-grade securities. use credit default swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments, manage credit exposures relative broad-based indices and facilitate portfolio diversification. use credit default swaps they are low cost method managing exposure individual credit risks groups credit risks. June , and , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were immaterial. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. use swap, futures and option contracts, not designated hedging instruments, generate and manage exposures broad-based commodity indices. use derivatives commodities they can low-cost alternatives the purchase and storage variety commodities, including, but not limited , precious metals, energy, and grain. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features Certain our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt maintain investment grade credit rating and require maintain minimum liquidity $ billion. the extent fail meet these requirements, will required post collateral, similar the standard convention related over-the-counter derivatives. June , , our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were excess $ billion. result, collateral required posted. PART Item Fair Values Derivative Instruments Following are the gross fair values derivative instruments held June , and , excluding the impact netting derivative assets and liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk: ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Interest Rate Contracts Credit Contracts Commodity Contracts Total Derivatives June , Assets Derivatives not designated hedging instruments: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Derivatives designated hedging instruments: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Total assets $ $ $ $ $ $ Liabilities Derivatives not designated hedging instruments: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Derivatives designated hedging instruments: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Total liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) PART Item ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Interest Rate Contracts Credit Contracts Commodity Contracts Total Derivatives June , Assets Derivatives not designated hedging instruments: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Derivatives designated hedging instruments: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Equity and other investments Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Total assets $ $ $ $ $ $ Liabilities Derivatives not designated hedging instruments: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Derivatives designated hedging instruments: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Total liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) See also Note \x96 Investments and Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements. Fair-Value Hedges recognized other income (expense) the following gains (losses) contracts designated fair value hedges and their related hedged items: ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign Exchange Contracts Derivatives $ ( ) $ Hedged items ( ) Total $ $ Equity Contracts Derivatives $ $ Hedged items ( ) Total $ $ ( ) PART Item Cash-Flow Hedges recognized the following gains (losses) related foreign exchange contracts designated cash flow hedges (our only cash flow hedges during the period): ( millions) Year Ended June , Effective Portion Gain recognized OCI, net tax effect $ and $ $ $ Gain reclassified from OCI into revenue $ $ Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Assessment and Ineffective Portion Loss recognized other income (expense) $ ( ) $ ( ) estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next months. significant amounts gains (losses) were reclassified from OCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur during fiscal year . Non-Designated Derivatives Gains (losses) from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are primarily recognized other income (expense). These amounts are shown the table below, with the exception gains (losses) derivatives presented income statement line items other than other income (expense), which were immaterial for the fiscal years and . Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) below are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities. ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign exchange contracts $ $ ( ) Equity contracts ( ) Interest-rate contracts ( ) Credit contracts ( ) Commodity contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ $ ( ) PART Item NOTE \x97 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The following tables present the fair value our financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis: ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ , $ $ $ , $ $ , Commercial paper Certificates deposit . Government and Agency securities , , , , Foreign government bonds Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ $ $ $ $ $ Commercial paper , , , Certificates deposit . Government and Agency securities , , , , Foreign government bonds , , , Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) These amounts represent the impact netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk. PART Item The table below reconciles the total Net Fair Value assets above the balance sheet presentation these same assets Note \x96 Investments for June , and . ( millions) June , Net fair value assets measured fair value recurring basis $ , $ , Cash , , Common and preferred stock measured fair value nonrecurring basis Other investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis Derivative assets classified other current assets ( ) ( ) Derivative liabilities under master netting agreements classified other current assets Other Recorded basis investment components $ , $ , Changes Financial Instruments Measured Level Fair Value Recurring Basis The following tables present the changes during the fiscal years and our Level financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis. The majority these instruments consist investment securities classified available-for-sale with changes fair value included OCI. ( millions) Corporate Notes and Bonds Common and Preferred Stock Derivative Assets Total Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ $ Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): Included other income (expense) Included other comprehensive income ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ $ Change unrealized gains (losses) included other income (expense) related assets held June , $ $ $ $ ( millions) Corporate Notes and Bonds Common and Preferred Stock Derivative Assets Total Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ $ Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): Included other income (expense) ( ) ( ) Included other comprehensive income Purchases, issuances, and settlements ( ) ( ) Transfers (out) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ $ Change unrealized gains (losses) included other income (expense) related assets held June , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) PART Item Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Nonrecurring Basis During fiscal years and , impairment charges $ million and $ million, respectively, were recognized for certain investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis, the decline their respective fair values below their cost was determined other than temporary all instances. June , and , the fair values the common and preferred stocks that held that were required measured fair value non-recurring basis were $ and $ million, respectively. NOTE \x97 INVENTORIES The components inventories were follows: ( millions) June , Raw materials $ $ Work process Finished goods Total $ $ NOTE \x97 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The components property and equipment were follows: ( millions) June , Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Total, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Total, net $ , $ , During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. NOTE \x97 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS During fiscal year , acquired five entities for total consideration $ million, substantially all which was paid cash. During this period, also sold three entities for total consideration $ million, including Razorfish the second quarter fiscal year . These entities have been included removed from our consolidated results operations since their acquisition sale dates, respectively. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these business combinations, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. PART Item NOTE \x97 GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment were follows: Balance June , Acquisitions Purchase Accounting Adjustments and Other Balance June , Acquisitions Purchase Accounting Adjustments and Other Balance June , ( millions) Windows & Windows Live Division $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ Server and Tools , ( ) , Online Services Division , ( ) , ( ) , Microsoft Business Division , ( ) , ( ) , Entertainment and Devices Division ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , None the amounts recorded goodwill are expected deductible for tax purposes. The measurement period for purchase price allocations ends soon information the facts and circumstances becomes available, but will not exceed months. Adjustments the purchase price allocation may require recasting the amounts allocated goodwill retroactive the period which the acquisition occurred. Any change the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations are presented \x93other\x94 the above table. Also included within \x93other\x94 for fiscal year $ million goodwill associated with business dispositions. See also Note \x96 Business Combinations. test goodwill for impairment annually May the reporting unit level using fair value approach. impairment goodwill was identified May , . connection with the disposal Razorfish, performed interim impairment analysis our Online Services Division goodwill balance during the first quarter fiscal year . impairment goodwill was identified. NOTE \x97 INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components intangible assets, all which are finite-lived, were follows: ( millions) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Year Ended June , Contract-based $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ Technology-based , ( , ) , ( , ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. material impairments intangible assets were identified during any the periods presented. PART Item The components intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and were follows: ( millions) Amount Weighted Average Life Amount Weighted Average Life Year Ended June , Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Marketing-related years Customer-related years years Total $ $ Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets held June , : ( millions) Year Ending June , $ and thereafter Total $ , NOTE \x97 DEBT September , our Board Directors authorized debt financings $ billion. June , , had $ billion issued and outstanding debt comprised $ billion commercial paper and $ billion long-term debt, including $ billion convertible debt. Cash paid for interest our debt for fiscal year was $ million. cash was paid for interest our debt for fiscal years and . Short-term Debt June , , our $ billion commercial paper issued and outstanding had weighted average interest rate, including issuance costs, % and maturities days. The estimated fair value this commercial paper approximates its carrying value. November , replaced our $ billion and $ billion credit facilities with $ billion -day credit facility, which expires November , . This facility serves back- for our commercial paper program. June , reduced the size our credit facility from $ billion $ billion due the reduction commercial paper outstanding. June , , were compliance with the financial covenant the credit facility agreement, which requires coverage ratio maintained least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense. amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any the periods presented. Long-term Debt Notes June , , had issued and outstanding $ billion debt securities illustrated the table below (collectively \x93the Notes\x94). Interest the Notes payable semi-annually June and December each year, holders record the preceding May and November . The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. PART Item Convertible Debt June , issued $ billion zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due June , private placement offering. Proceeds from the offering were $ billion, net fees and expenses which were capitalized. The majority the proceeds were used repay outstanding commercial paper, leaving $ billion commercial paper outstanding June , . Each $ , principal amount notes convertible into shares Microsoft common stock conversion price $ per share. Prior March , , the notes will convertible, only certain circumstances, into cash and, applicable, cash, shares Microsoft\x92 common stock combination thereof, our election. after March , , the notes will convertible any time. Upon conversion, will pay cash the aggregate principal amount the notes and pay deliver cash, shares our common stock combination cash and shares our common stock, our election. Because the convertible debt may wholly partially settled cash, are required separately account for the liability and equity components the notes manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized subsequent periods. The net proceeds $ billion were allocated between debt for $ billion and stockholders\x92 equity for $ million with the portion stockholders\x92 equity representing the fair value the option convert the debt. connection with the issuance the notes, entered into capped call transactions with certain option counterparties who are initial purchasers the notes their affiliates. The capped call transactions are expected reduce potential dilution earnings per share upon conversion the notes. Under the capped call transactions, purchased from the option counterparties capped call options that the aggregate relate the total number shares our common stock underlying the notes, with strike price equal the conversion price the notes and with cap price equal $ . The purchased capped calls were valued $ million and recorded stockholders\x92 equity. June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt, including convertible debt, were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The estimate fair value based quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt June , , applicable. The effective interest yields the Notes due , , and were %, %, and %, respectively, June , . The effective interest yield the convertible debt due % June , and the coupon interest rate zero percent. The components long-term debt June , were follows: ( millions) Zero coupon convertible notes due June , $ , % Notes due June , , % Notes due June , , % Notes due June , Unamortized discount for Notes above ( ) Total $ , Maturities long-term debt for the next five years are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ , , Thereafter , Total $ , PART Item NOTE \x97 INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Current Taxes . federal $ , $ , $ , . state and local International , , , Current taxes , , , Deferred Taxes Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and international components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes were follows: Year Ended June , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Internal Revenue Service settlement % % ( )% European Commission fine % % % Other reconciling items, net % % % Effective rate % % % general, other reconciling items consist interest, . state income taxes, domestic production deductions, and research credits. fiscal years , and , there were individually significant other reconciling items. PART Item The components the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June , Deferred Income Tax Assets Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , Other expense items , , Unearned revenue Impaired investments Other revenue items Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred Income Tax Liabilities International earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported Current deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred income tax assets (liabilities) ( ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when the taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the . The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences approximately $ billion. Income taxes paid were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. Uncertain Tax Positions June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. Interest unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , and , respectively. June , , and , had accrued interest related uncertain tax positions $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively, net federal income tax benefits. PART Item The aggregate changes the balance unrecognized tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ , $ , $ , Decreases related settlements ( ) ( ) ( , ) Increases for tax positions related the current year , , Increases for tax positions related prior years Decreases for tax positions related prior years ( ) ( ) ( ) Reductions due lapsed statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ , $ , $ , are under audit the IRS for the tax years - . not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months not believe the examination will concluded within the next months. are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the ., and certain jurisdictions are under audit local tax authorities. The resolutions these audits are not expected material our financial statements. NOTE \x97 UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs, well payments for undelivered elements and for other offerings for which earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Volume Licensing Programs Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid either inception the agreement annually the beginning each billing coverage period and accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered Elements Undelivered elements consist mainly payments for unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis for Windows , and technology guarantee programs. Other Also included unearned revenue are payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June , Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , Other , , Total $ , $ , PART Item Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June , Windows & Windows Live Division $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Microsoft Business Division , , Other segments Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June , Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ , $ , Legal contingencies Product warranty Other Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES Construction and Operating Leases have committed $ million for constructing new buildings, building improvements and leasehold improvements June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for facilities operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities operating leases place June , are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ and thereafter Total $ , Indemnifications provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications, and consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. PART Item Yahoo! Commercial Agreement December , , entered into definitive agreement with Yahoo! whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! Web sites. The transaction received clearance, without restrictions, from both the . Department Justice and the European Commission during the third fiscal quarter . The term the agreement years subject termination provisions after five years based performance. Microsoft provided Yahoo! country level revenue per search guarantees for period months after implementation the Bing search platform. These guarantees are calculated, paid, and trued- three six-month periods thereafter, and are intended insure Yahoo! against any persistent drop revenue per search from pre-implementation levels. This rate guarantee not guarantee search volume. estimate the total cost the revenue per search guarantees during the guarantee period could range between zero and $ million; however, amount has been recorded for the revenue per search guarantees not believe that such liability exists this time. Microsoft also agreed reimburse Yahoo! for certain transition expenses incurred both before and after the effective date the agreement. Finally, Microsoft also agreed reimburse Yahoo! for certain costs running algorithmic and paid search services prior migration Microsoft\x92 platform. Product Warranty The changes our aggregate product warranty liabilities, which are included other current liabilities and other long term-liabilities our balance sheets, were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ $ Accruals for warranties issued Adjustments pre-existing warranties ( ) Settlements warranty claims ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ $ NOTE \x97 CONTINGENCIES Government Competition Law Matters March , the European Commission issued competition law decision that, among other things, ordered license certain Windows server protocol technology our competitors. March , the European Commission issued statement objections claiming that the pricing terms proposed for licensing the technology required the March decision were \x93not reasonable.\x94 Following additional steps took address these concerns, the Commission announced October , that were compliance with the March decision and that further penalty should accrue after that date. February , , the Commission issued fine $ billion ( \x80 million) relating the period prior October , . May , filed application with the European Court First Instance annul the February fine. paid the $ billion ( \x80 million) fine June , pending the outcome the appeal. January , the Commission opened competition law investigation that relates primarily interoperability with respect our Microsoft Office family products. This investigation resulted from complaints filed with the Commission trade association Microsoft\x92 competitors. Microsoft has made number proposals address the Commission\x92 competition law concerns this area. The Commission announced December , that welcomed these proposals and that will take them into account assessing this matter. During the fourth quarter fiscal year , the trade association withdrew its complaint that was the basis the investigation. PART Item are also subject Consent Decree and Final Judgment (\x93Final Judgments\x94) that resolved lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions. The Final Judgments imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. The Final Judgments are scheduled expire May . other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state attorneys general have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits were filed against various state, federal, and Canadian courts behalf various classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain other software products. obtained dismissals damages claims indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Courts refused certify classes two additional states. have reached agreements settle all claims that have been made date states and the District Columbia. The settlements all states have received final court approval. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them reimbursed for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers that may issue varies state. will make available certain schools percentage those vouchers that are not issued claimed (one-half two-thirds depending the state). The total value vouchers ultimately issue will depend the number class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value vouchers issued approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. estimate the total cost resolve all the state overcharge class action cases will range between $ billion and $ billion. June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ million, which reflects our estimated exposure $ billion less payments made date approximately $ billion mostly for vouchers, legal fees, and administrative expenses. The three cases pending British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, Canada have not been settled. March , the court the British Columbia case certified class action. have appealed this ruling. The other two actions have been stayed. Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims November , Novell, Inc. filed complaint . District Court for the District Utah (later transferred federal court Maryland), asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four six claims the complaint. March , , the trial court granted summary judgment favor Microsoft all remaining claims. Novell has appealed that ruling. Patent and Intellectual Property Claims , filed action . District Court California seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe certain Alcatel-Lucent patents (although this action began before the merger Alcatel and Lucent , for simplicity refer the post-merger entity Alcatel-Lucent). April , jury returned verdict Alcatel-Lucent\x92 favor trial consolidated group one video and three user interface patents. The jury concluded that had infringed two user interface patents and awarded $ million damages. June , the trial judge increased the amount damages $ million include $ million interest. appealed that award the Federal Circuit. December , entered into settlement agreement resolving all other litigation pending between Microsoft and Alcatel-Lucent, leaving approximately $ million remaining dispute. September , the United States Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the liability award but vacated the verdict and remanded the case the trial court for -trial the damages ruling, indicating the damages previously awarded were too high. Trial the remanded damages claim has been set for the first week December . PART Item October , Uniloc USA Inc., subsidiary Singapore-based security technology company, filed patent infringement suit . District Court Rhode Island, claiming that product activation technology Windows and certain other Microsoft programs violated Uniloc patent. After obtained favorable summary judgment that did not infringe any the claims this patent, the court appeals vacated the trial court decision and remanded the case for trial. April , the jury returned $ million verdict against , including finding willful infringement. September , the district court judge overturned the jury verdict, ruling that the evidence did not support the jury\x92 finding that Microsoft infringed the patent. Uniloc has appealed. March , i4i Limited Partnership sued Microsoft . District Court Texas claiming that certain custom XML technology Word and infringed i4i\x92 patent. May , jury returned verdict against , finding damages $ million and that willfully infringed the patent. August , the court denied our post-trial motions and awarded enhanced damages $ million and prejudgment interest $ million. The court also issued permanent injunction prohibiting additional distribution the allegedly infringing technology. appealed and the appellate court stayed the injunction pending our appeal. December , , the court appeals rejected our appeal and affirmed the trial court\x92 judgment and injunction, except that the court appeals modified the effective date the injunction January , . April , , the court appeals denied our request for rehearing. intend seek review the . Supreme Court. , VirnetX Inc. brought suit . District Court Texas claiming that various Microsoft products including Windows client and server operating systems software and communications software infringe two patents related technology for securely communicating over the Internet. This case was tried jury March . The jury returned verdict that Microsoft willfully infringed both patents, and found damages approximately $ million. March , VirnetX filed new lawsuit the Eastern District Texas alleging that additional Microsoft products and services including Windows and Windows Server infringe the same two patents. The parties have reached agreement settle both lawsuits. There are over other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft, which are set for trial fiscal year . Other also are subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial statements, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities approximately $ billion other current liabilities and approximately $ million other long-term liabilities for all the contingent matters described this note. While intend vigorously defend these matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes that estimate could reach approximately $ million aggregate beyond recorded amounts. Were unfavorable final outcomes occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial statements for the period which the effects become reasonably estimable. NOTE \x97 STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares Outstanding Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , PART Item Share Repurchases September , , announced the completion the two repurchase programs approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock. September , , also announced that our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased the following shares common stock under the above-described repurchase plans using cash resources: ( millions) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Year Ended June , ( ) ( ) ( ) First quarter $ , $ , $ , Second quarter , , , Third quarter , , Fourth quarter , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) All shares repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the plan approved our Board Directors September , . ( ) the million shares common stock repurchased fiscal year , million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the plan approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year . The remaining shares were repurchased under the plan approved our Board Directors September , . ( ) All shares repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the plan approved our Board Directors during the first quarter fiscal year . Dividends fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . PART Item Cumulative Effects Changes Accounting Principle July , , adopted guidance accounting for uncertainty income taxes, which provides financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for tax position taken expected taken tax return. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. July , , adopted accounting guidance which requires companies accrue the costs compensated absences under sabbatical similar benefit arrangement over the requisite service period. Upon adoption, recognized $ million charge our beginning retained deficit cumulative effect change accounting principle. NOTE \x97 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related income tax effects were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net Unrealized Gains Derivatives Unrealized gains, net tax effects $ , $ , and $ $ $ $ Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains derivatives $ $ $ Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) Investments Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $ , $( ), and $( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included net income, net tax effects $( ) , $ , and $( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments ( ) ( ) Translation adjustments and other, net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) The components accumulated other comprehensive income were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net unrealized gains derivatives $ $ $ Net unrealized gains investments Translation adjustments and other ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ $ , NOTE \x97 EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Total stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ PART Item Employee Stock Purchase Plan have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented: (Shares millions) Year Ended June , Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares our common stock were reserved for future issuance through the employee stock purchase plan. Stock Plans have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants, and advisors. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, which cover stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. issue new shares satisfy exercises and vestings awards granted under all our stock plans. Stock Awards Stock awards (\x93SAs\x94) are grants that entitle the holder shares Microsoft common stock the award vests. Our SAs generally vest over five-year period. Shared Performance Stock Awards Shared performance stock awards (\x93SPSAs\x94) are form which the number shares ultimately received depends our business performance against specified performance targets. granted SPSAs for fiscal years , , and with performance periods July , through June , , July , through June , , and July , through June , , respectively. September following the end each performance period, the number shares stock subject the award determined multiplying the target award percentage ranging from % %. The percentage based performance metrics for the performance period, determined the Compensation Committee the Board Directors its sole discretion. additional number shares, approximately % the total target SPSAs, are available additional awards participants based individual performance. One-quarter the shares stock subject each award vest following the end the performance period, and additional one-quarter the shares vest each the following three anniversaries the grant date. Executive Officer Incentive Plan fiscal year , the Compensation Committee approved new Executive Officer Incentive Plan (\x93EOIP\x94) for executive officers the Company. The EOIP replaced the annual cash bonus opportunity and equity award plans for executive officers. Under the EOIP, the Compensation Committee makes awards performance-based compensation for specified performance periods. For fiscal years and , executive officers were eligible receive annual awards comprised cash and SAs from incentive pool equal percentage the Company\x92 operating income. For fiscal year was % operating income, and for fiscal year was % operating income. Following approval the awards, % the award payable the executive officers cash, and the remaining % converted into for shares Microsoft common stock. The portion the award vests one-quarter immediately after the award approved following fiscal year-end, and one-quarter August each the following three years. PART Item grant awards from the incentive pool the executive officers September following the end the fiscal year based the officer\x92 performance during the prior fiscal year period. Each executive officer receives fixed percentage the pool ranging between % and % target based assessment the executive officer\x92 performance during the fiscal year. The number shares subject the portion the award determined dividing the value the award the closing price Microsoft common stock August each year. Activity for All Stock Plans The fair value each award estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: Year Ended June , Dividends per share (quarterly amounts) $ $ - $ $ - $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our existing plans: Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value ( millions) Stock Awards Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Nonvested balance, end year $ Shared Performance Stock Awards Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Nonvested balance, end year $ June , , there was $ billion and $ million total unrecognized compensation costs related SAs and SPSAs, respectively. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years and years, respectively. During fiscal year and , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: ( millions, except fair values) Stock Awards Awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Shared Performance Stock Awards Awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ PART Item Stock Options fiscal year , began granting employees and non-employee directors SAs rather than non-qualified and incentive stock options part our equity compensation plans. Since then, stock options issued employees have been issued primarily conjunction with business acquisitions. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire years from the date grant. granted one million, one million, and million stock options conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years , , and , respectively. Employee stock options activity was follows: Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) (Years) ( millions) Balance, July , $ Granted $ Exercised ( ) $ Canceled ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Balance, June , $ $ Exercisable, June , $ $ Options outstanding June , include approximately three million options that were granted conjunction with business acquisitions. While these options are included the options outstanding balance, they are excluded from the weighted average exercise price. These options have exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . During fiscal years , , and , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: ( millions) Total intrinsic value stock options exercised $ $ $ , Total vest-date fair value stock awards vested $ , $ , $ Total vest-date fair value shared performance stock awards vested $ $ $ Cash received from option exercises for fiscal years , , and , was $ billion, $ million, and $ billion, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. Savings Plan have savings plan the United States that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively, and were expensed contributed. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. PART Item NOTE \x97 EMPLOYEE SEVERANCE January , announced and implemented resource management program reduce discretionary operating expenses, employee headcount, and capital expenditures. part this program, announced the elimination , positions research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology. September , , had reduced our overall number positions approximately , and headcount approximately , . November , identified additional positions for elimination based our efforts manage our expenses. Severance expense approximately $ million associated with these additional eliminations was reflected our financial statements. have now completed this program and reduced our overall headcount approximately , . The changes our employee severance liabilities related our resource management efforts were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ Employee severance charges Adjustments Cash payments ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ NOTE \x97 SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA its operation the business, management, including our chief operating decision maker, the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer, reviews certain financial information, including segmented internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with accounting principles generally accepted the . (\x93 . GAAP\x94). Our five segments are Windows & Windows Live Division; Server and Tools; Online Services Division; Microsoft Business Division; and Entertainment and Devices Division. have recast certain prior period amounts within this note conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during the current fiscal year, including moving Windows Live from Online Services Division Windows & Windows Live Division and Razorfish from Online Services Division Corporate. Razorfish was sold during the second quarter fiscal year . Segment revenue and operating income (loss) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue Windows & Windows Live Division $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Division , , , Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , , , Unallocated and other Consolidated $ , $ , $ , PART Item ( millions) Year Ended June , Operating Income (Loss) Windows & Windows Live Division $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Division ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division ( ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Windows & Windows Live Division \x96 Windows & Windows Live Division offerings consist Windows operating systems, including Windows , and online software and services through Windows Live. Windows Live primarily generates revenue from online advertising. Server and Tools \x96 Server and Tools product and service offerings consist Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Azure and other cloud and server offerings. Server and Tools also offers Enterprise Services, which comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Online Services Division \x96 Online Services Division consists online advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, online information offerings, such Bing, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. Microsoft Business Division \x96 Microsoft Business Division offerings include Microsoft Office, SharePoint, and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Entertainment and Devices Division \x96 Entertainment and Devices Division offerings include the Xbox platform, the Zune digital music and entertainment platform, software games, online games and services, Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), Windows Phone, Windows Embedded device platforms, application software for Apple\x92 Macintosh computers, and Microsoft hardware products. Due the integrated structure our business, certain costs incurred one segment may benefit other segments. The costs that are identifiable are allocated the segments that benefit incent cross-collaboration among our segments that one segment not solely burdened the cost mutually beneficial activity. Each allocation measured differently based the specific facts and circumstances the costs being allocated. These cost allocations were not material any period presented. PART Item addition, certain costs incurred corporate level that are identifiable and that benefit our segments are allocated them. These allocated costs include costs : field selling; employee benefits; shared facilities services; and customer service and support. Each allocation measured differently based the specific facts and circumstances the costs being allocated. Certain other corporate-level activity not allocated our segments, including costs : broad-based sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; legal settlements and contingencies; and employee severance. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts the tables above and below include adjustments conform our internal accounting policies . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, depreciation, and amortization stock-based awards. Significant reconciling items were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Corporate-level activity ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense Revenue reconciling amounts Other ( ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level activity excludes stock-based compensation expense and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States and licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations. Revenues from external customers, classified significant product and service offerings were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Microsoft Office system $ , $ , $ , Windows operating systems , , , Server products and tools , , , Xbox platform , , , Consulting and product support services , , , Advertising , , , Other , , , Total $ , $ , $ , PART Item Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred taxes, classified the location the controlling statutory company, were follows: ( millions) June , United States $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , NOTE \x97 QUARTERLY INFORMATION (Unaudited) ( millions, except per share amounts) Quarter Ended September December March June Total Fiscal Year Revenue $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Reflects $ billion revenue recognized for sales Windows Vista with guarantee upgraded Windows minimal cost and Windows original equipment manufacturers and retailers before general availability (the \x93Windows Deferral\x94). ( ) Reflects $ billion revenue deferred future periods relating the Windows Deferral. ( ) Reflects $ million revenue deferred future periods relating the Windows Deferral. ( ) Includes employee severance $ million and $ million (pre-tax) the third and fourth quarters the year ended June , , respectively. ( ) Includes charge $ billion ( \x80 million) related the fine imposed the European Commission February . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting June , ; their report included Item . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the internal control over financial reporting Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , , the Company and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this Form - . Information about our directors may found under the caption \x93Nominees\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption \x93Board Committees\x94 the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our Web site www microsoft com investor CorporateGovernance BoardofDirectors Contacts MSFinanceCode aspx. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature the amendment waiver that Web site report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Director Compensation,\x94 \x93Named Executive Officer Compensation,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee Report,\x94 and \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions \x93Director Independence\x94 and \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services Independent Auditor\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PART Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Form - , indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. Index Financial Statements Page ( ) Exhibit Listing Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation - Form Indenture between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee (\x93Base Indenture\x94) -ASR Form First Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Base Indenture - Indenture, dated June , , between Microsoft Corporation and the Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - Form Global Note representing the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Notes due - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date * Form Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the January , June , performance period - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the July , June , performance period - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Officers\x92 Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for the fiscal year performance period - * Executive Officer Incentive Plan - * Form Executive Officer Incentive Plan Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Annual Performance Bonus Plan for Executive Officers - Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act INS** XBRL Instance Document SCH** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema CAL** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase DEF** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase LAB** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase PRE** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement ** Pursuant Rule 406T Regulation - , these interactive data files are deemed not filed part registration statement prospectus for purposes Sections the Securities Act Section the Securities Exchange Act and otherwise are not subject liability. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}