{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS Overview our founders Larry and Sergey wrote the original founders\' letter, "Google not conventional company. not intend become one." That unconventional spirit has been driving force throughout our history, inspiring tackle big problems, and invest moonshots like artificial intelligence (" ") research and quantum computing. continue this work under the leadership Sundar Pichai, who has served CEO Google since and CEO Alphabet since . Alphabet collection businesses — the largest which Google — which report two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud. report all non-Google businesses collectively Other Bets. Our Other Bets include earlier stage technologies that are further afield from our core Google business. take long term view and manage the portfolio Other Bets with the discipline and rigor needed deliver long-term returns. Our Alphabet structure about helping each our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. Access and technology for everyone The Internet one the world’ most powerful equalizers, capable propelling new ideas and people forward. Our mission organize the world’ information and make universally accessible and useful relevant today was when were founded . Since then, ’ evolved from company that helps people find answers company that helps you get things done. ’ focused building even more helpful Google for everyone, and aspire give everyone the tools they need increase their knowledge, health, happiness and success. Across Alphabet, \' focused continually innovating areas where technology can have impact people’ lives. Every year, there are trillions searches Google, and continue invest deeply and other technologies ensure the most helpful Search experience possible. People come YouTube for entertainment, information and opportunities learn something new. And Google Assistant offers the best way get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout your day, matter where you are. Since the pandemic began, our teams have built new features help users about their daily lives, and support businesses working serve their customers during uncertain time. conjunction with Apple, launched Exposure Notification apps that are being used local governments globally. Our COVID- Community Mobility Reports are used public health agencies and researchers around the globe, and ’ committed hundreds millions dollars help small businesses through combination small business loans, grants and credits. Importantly, \' made authoritative content key focus area across both Google Search and YouTube help users search for trusted public health information. Our Other Bets are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, part our efforts the Metro Phoenix area, Waymo working toward our goal making transportation safer and easier for everyone while Verily developing tools and platforms improve health outcomes. Moonshots Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads irrelevance over time, especially technology, where change tends revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought were crazy when acquired YouTube and Android and when launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and safer, popular browser. continue look toward the future and continue invest for the long-term. said the original founders\' letter, will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that believe because they are the key our long-term success. The power machine learning Across the company, machine learning and are increasingly driving many our latest innovations. Our investments machine learning over the past decade have enabled build products that are smarter and more helpful. For example, huge breakthrough natural language understanding, called BERT, now improves results for almost every English language search query. DeepMind made significant -powered breakthrough, solving -year-old protein folding challenge, which will help better understand one life’ fundamental building blocks, and will enable researchers tackle new and difficult problems, from fighting diseases environmental sustainability. Alphabet Inc. Google For reporting purposes, Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud. Google Services Serving our users have always been company committed building helpful products that can improve the lives millions people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one the most recognized the world. Google Services\' core products and platforms include Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, each with broad and growing adoption users around the world. Our products and services have come long way since the company was founded more than two decades ago. Rather than the ten blue links our early search results, users can now get direct answers their questions using their computer, mobile device, their own voice, making quicker, easier and more natural find what you\' looking for. This drive make information more accessible and helpful has led over the years improve the discovery and creation digital content, the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. With the migration mobile, people are consuming more digital content watching more videos, playing more games, listening more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, continue build new ways for people around the world find great digital content. Fueling all these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That’ why continue invest platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, well growing our family great hardware devices. see tremendous potential for devices helpful, make your life easier, and get better over time, combining the best our , software, and hardware. This reflected our latest generation hardware products like Pixel , Pixel and Pixel phones, Chromecast with Google and the Google Nest Hub smart display. Creating beautiful products that people rely every day journey that are investing for the long run. Key building helpful products for users our commitment privacy, security and user choice. the Internet evolves, continue invest keeping data safe, including enhanced malware features Chrome and improvements auto-delete controls that will automatically delete web and app searches after months. How make money Our advertising products deliver relevant ads just the right time, give people useful commercial information, regardless the device they’ using. also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns. Our advertising solutions help millions companies grow their businesses, and offer wide range products across devices and formats. Google Services generates revenues primarily delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising. • Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click , leading direct engagement with advertisers. Most our performance advertisers pay when user engages their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers create simple text-based ads that appear Google Search & other properties, YouTube and the properties Google Network Members. addition, Google Network Members use our platforms display relevant ads their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view click the ads. continue invest our advertising programs and make significant upgrades. • Brand advertising helps enhance users\' awareness and affinity with advertisers\' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types ads specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. have built world-class technology platform for advertisers, agencies, and publishers power their digital marketing businesses. aim ensure great user experiences serving the right ads the right time and building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. also seek improve the measurability advertising advertisers know when their campaigns are effective. have allocated substantial resources stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users the web. focus creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers many ways, ranging Alphabet Inc. from filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions bad ads from our systems every year closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary ensure that ads not fund bad content. continue look the future and are making long-term investments that will grow revenues beyond advertising, including Google Play, hardware, and YouTube. are also investing research efforts and quantum computing foster innovation across our businesses and create new opportunities. Google Cloud Google was company built the cloud. continue invest infrastructure, security, data management, analytics and . see significant opportunity helping businesses utilize these strengths with features like data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace (formerly known Suite). Google Cloud Platform enables developers build, test, and deploy applications its highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our Google Workspace collaboration tools — which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet and more — are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence help people work smarter. Because more and more today’ great digital experiences are being built the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses all sizes take advantage the latest technology advances operate more efficiently. Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services and Google Workspace collaboration tools. Other Bets Throughout Alphabet, are also using technology try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet’ investment our portfolio Other Bets include emerging businesses various stages development, ranging from those the research and development phase those that are the beginning stages commercialization, and our goal for them become thriving, successful businesses the medium long term. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some them are already generating revenue and making important strides their industries. Revenues are primarily generated from internet and services, well licensing and & services. Other Bets operate independent companies and some them have their own boards with independent members and outside investors. are investing our portfolio Other Bets and being very deliberate about the focus, scale, and pace investments. Competition Our business characterized rapid change well new and disruptive technologies. face formidable competition every aspect our business, particularly from companies that seek connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. face competition from: • General purpose search engines and information services, such Baidu, Microsoft\' Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon\' Yahoo, and Yandex. • Vertical search engines and -commerce websites, such Amazon and eBay ( -commerce), Booking\' Kayak (travel queries), Microsoft\' LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly such content, websites, and apps rather than through Google. • Social networks, such Facebook, Snapchat, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely social networks for product service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines. • Other forms advertising, such billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise multiple media, both online and offline. • Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use Google Ads, our primary auction-based advertising platform. • Providers digital video services, such Amazon, Apple, & , Disney, Facebook, Hulu, Netflix and TikTok. businesses that are further afield from our advertising business, compete with companies that have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. face competition from: • Other digital content and application platform providers, such Amazon and Apple. Alphabet Inc. • Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms. • Providers enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft. • Digital assistant providers, such Amazon and Apple. Competing successfully depends heavily our ability deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies the marketplace across our businesses. Specifically, for advertising, competing successfully depends attracting and retaining: • Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely the basis the relevance our advertising, well the general usefulness, security and availability our products and services. • Advertisers, primarily based our ability generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and deliver their advertisements efficient and effective manner across variety distribution channels. • Content providers, primarily based the quality our advertiser base, our ability help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms our agreements with them. Ongoing Commitment Sustainability Google, build technology that helps people more for the planet. strive build sustainability into everything , including designing and operating efficient data centers, advancing carbon-free energy, creating sustainable workplaces, building better devices and services, empowering users with technology, and enabling responsible supply chain. Google has been carbon neutral since , and , for the third consecutive year, matched % our electricity consumption with renewable energy purchases. are the largest annual corporate purchaser renewable energy the world, based renewable electricity purchased megawatt-hour (MWh). , neutralized our entire legacy carbon footprint since our founding (covering all our operational emissions before became carbon neutral ), making Google the first major company achieve carbon neutrality for its entire operating history. our third decade climate action, ’ set our most ambitious goal yet: run our business carbon-free energy everywhere, all times, . \' also investing technologies help our partners and people all over the world make sustainable choices. For example, intend enable new carbon-free energy across our key manufacturing regions through investment. anticipate this will spur more than $ billion clean energy investments, avoid the amount emissions equal taking more than million cars off the road each year, and create more than , clean energy jobs. With the Environmental Insights Explorer, \' also working help more than cities and local governments globally reduce total gigaton carbon emissions annually — that’ the equivalent the annual carbon emissions country the size Japan. Google’ products are already helping people make more sustainable choices their daily lives, whether ’ using Google Maps find bike-shares and electric vehicle charging stations, many European countries, using Google Flights sort the least carbon-intensive option flights. There are more tools and information can provide, and our goal find new ways that our products can help billion people make more sustainable choices . Climate change one the most significant global challenges our time. , developed climate resilience strategy, which included conducting climate scenario analysis. \' earned spot the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change List for seven consecutive years. believe our CDP climate change response reflects the recommendations the Task Force Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). , issued $ billion sustainability bonds, the largest sustainability green bond issuance any company history. The net proceeds from the issuance are used fund environmentally and socially responsible projects the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID- crisis response. More information our approach sustainability can found our annual sustainability reports, including Google’ environmental report. The content our sustainability reports are not incorporated reference into this Annual Report Form - any other report document file with the SEC. Alphabet Inc. Culture and Workforce ’ company curious, talented and passionate people. embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration ideas address complex challenges technology and society. Our people are critical for our continued success. work hard provide environment where Googlers can have fulfilling careers, and happy, healthy and productive. offer industry-leading benefits and programs take care the diverse needs our employees and their families, including access excellent healthcare choices, opportunities for career growth and development, and resources support their financial health. Our competitive compensation programs help attract and retain top candidates, and will continue invest recruiting talented people technical and non-technical roles and rewarding them well. Alphabet committed making diversity, equity, and inclusion part everything and ’ committed growing workforce that’ representative the users serve. More information Google’ approach diversity can found our annual diversity reports, available publicly diversity google. The content our diversity reports not incorporated reference into this Annual Report Form - any other report document file with the SEC. have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations certain countries and are committed supporting protected labor rights, maintaining open culture and listening all Googlers. Supporting healthy and open dialogue central how work, and communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels our employees. December , , Alphabet had , employees. When necessary, contract with businesses around the world provide specialized services where don’ have appropriate -house expertise resources, often fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, customer support, content moderation and physical security. also contract with temporary staffing agencies when need cover short-term leaves, when have spikes business needs, when need quickly incubate special projects. choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Google’ Supplier Code Conduct. continually make improvements promote respectful and positive working environment for everyone — employees, vendors and temporary staff alike. Government Regulation are subject numerous . federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations covering wide variety subject matters. Like other companies the technology industry, face heightened scrutiny from both . and foreign governments with respect our compliance with laws and regulations. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may onerous and could, individually the aggregate, increase our cost doing business, impact our competitive position relative our peers, and otherwise have adverse impact our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. For additional information about government regulation applicable our business, see Risk Factors Part , Item , Trends Our Business Part , Item , and Legal Matters Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Intellectual Property rely various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions protect our proprietary technology and our brand. have registered, and applied for the registration , . and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. have also filed patent applications the . and foreign countries covering certain our technology, and acquired patent assets supplement our portfolio. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our rights other parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonal fluctuations internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such traditional retail seasonality (including developments and volatility arising from COVID- ). Available Information Our website located www abc xyz, and our investor relations website located www abc xyz investor. Our Annual Reports Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments these reports, are available through our investor relations website, free charge, after file them with the SEC. also provide link the section the SEC\' website www sec gov that has all the reports that file furnish with the SEC. webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events participate host with members the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications news Alphabet Inc. announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may material interest our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. also share Google news and product updates Google\' Keyword blog https://www blog google/, that may material interest our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code conduct, also available our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content our websites are not incorporated reference into this Annual Report Form - any other report document file with the SEC, and any references our websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited those described below, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Specific our Company generate significant portion our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending advertisers, loss partners, new and existing technologies that block ads online and affect our ability customize ads could harm our business. generate over % total revenues from the display ads online . Many our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with any time. These partners may not continue business with not create more value (such increased numbers users customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. Changes our advertising policies and data privacy practices, well changes other companies’ advertising and data privacy practices may affect the advertising that are able provide, which could harm our business. addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult that block the display ads altogether and some providers online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality third-party digital advertising. Failing provide superior value deliver advertisements effectively and competitively could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. addition, expenditures advertisers tend cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including COVID- and its effects the global economy ( discussed greater detail our COVID- risk factor under ‘General Risks’ below), have impacted the demand for advertising and resulted fluctuations the amounts our advertisers spend advertising, and could have adverse impact such demand and spend, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. face intense competition. not continue innovate and provide products and services that are useful users, may not remain competitive, which could harm our business and operating results. Our business environment rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our businesses face changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions rival products and services. compete successfully, must accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies timely manner. our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure innovate will encompass wider range products and services. must continue invest significant resources research and development, including through acquisitions, order enhance our technology and new and existing products and services. have many competitors different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies emerging start-ups. Some competitors have longer operating histories and well established relationships various sectors. They can use their experience and resources ways that could affect our competitive position, including making acquisitions, continuing invest heavily research and development and talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether not meritorious), and continuing compete aggressively for users, advertisers, customers, and content providers. Further, discrepancies enforcement existing laws may enable our lesser known competitors aggressively interpret those laws without commensurate scrutiny, thereby affording them competitive advantages. Our competitors may also able innovate and provide products and services faster than can may foresee the need for products and services before . Our operating results may also suffer our products and services are not responsive the needs our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. technologies continue develop, our competitors may able offer experiences that are, that are seen , substantially similar better than ours. This Alphabet Inc. may force compete different ways and expend significant resources order remain competitive. our competitors are more successful than are developing compelling products attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers, our operating results could harmed. Our ongoing investment new businesses, products, services, and technologies inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. have invested and expect continue invest new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The investments that are making across Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets reflect our ongoing efforts innovate and provide products and services that are useful users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers. Our investments Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets span wide range industries beyond online advertising. Such investments ultimately may not commercially viable may not result adequate return capital and, pursuing new strategies, may incur unanticipated liabilities. These endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion management resources and, with respect Other Bets, the use alternative investment, governance, compensation structures that may fail adequately align incentives across the company otherwise accomplish their objectives. Within Google Services, continue invest heavily hardware, including our smartphones and home devices, which highly competitive market with frequent introduction new products and services, rapid adoption technological advancements competitors, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price and performance characteristics, and price and feature sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. There can assurance will able provide hardware that competes effectively. Within Google Cloud, devote significant resources develop and deploy our enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace. are incurring costs build and maintain infrastructure support cloud computing services and hire talent, particularly support and scale our salesforce. the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services. Pricing and delivery models are competitive and evolving, and may not attain sufficient scale and profitability achieve our business objectives. Within Other Bets, are investing significantly the areas health, life sciences, and transportation, among others. These investment areas face intense competition from large experienced and well-funded competitors and our offerings may not able compete effectively operate sufficient levels profitability. addition, new and evolving products and services, including those that use artificial intelligence and machine learning, raise ethical, technological, legal, regulatory, and other challenges, which may negatively affect our brands and demand for our products and services. Because all these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and offerings will successful and will not harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and anticipate downward pressure our operating margin the future. Our revenue growth rate could decline over time result number factors, including increasing competition and the continued expansion our business into variety new fields. Changes device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix and increasing competition for advertising may also affect our advertising revenue growth rate. may also experience decline our revenue growth rate our revenues increase higher levels, there decrease the rate adoption our products, services, and technologies, due deceleration decline demand for devices used access our services, among other factors. addition, COVID- and its effects the global economy has impacted and may continue adversely impact our revenue growth rate ( discussed greater detail our COVID- risk factor under ‘General Risks’ below). addition decline our revenue growth rate, may also experience downward pressure our operating margin resulting from variety factors, such the continued expansion our business into new fields, including products and services such hardware, Google Cloud, and subscription products, well significant investments Other Bets, all which may have margins lower than those generate from advertising. may also experience downward pressure our operating margins from increasing regulations, increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects our business, including within advertising where changes such device mix, property mix, and partner agreements can affect margin. The margin earn revenues generated from our Google Network Members could also decrease the future pay larger percentage advertising fees them. may also pay increased TAC our distribution partners well increased content acquisition Alphabet Inc. costs content providers. may also face increase infrastructure costs, supporting businesses such Search, Google Cloud, and YouTube. Many our expenses are less variable nature and may not correlate changes revenues. Due these factors and the evolving nature our business, our historical revenue growth rate and historical operating margin may not indicative our future performance. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability protect them could reduce the value our products, services and brands well affect our ability compete. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for . Various events outside our control pose threat our intellectual property rights, well our products, services, and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which our products and services are distributed made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts have taken protect our proprietary rights may not sufficient effective. Although seek obtain patent protection for our innovations, possible may not able protect some these innovations. Moreover, may not have adequate patent copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out important. Furthermore, there always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope the protection gained will insufficient that issued patent may deemed invalid unenforceable. also seek maintain certain intellectual property trade secrets. The secrecy such trade secrets and other sensitive information could compromised, which could cause lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there risk that the word “Google” could become commonly used that becomes synonymous with the word “search.” Some courts have ruled that "Google" protectable trademark, but possible that other courts, particularly those outside the United States, may reach different determination. this happens, could lose protection for this trademark, which could result other people using the word “Google” refer their own products, thus diminishing our brand. Any significant impairment our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights costly and time consuming. Any increase the unauthorized use our intellectual property could make more expensive business and harm our operating results. Our business depends strong brands, and failing maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability expand our base users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our strong brands have significantly contributed the success our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud and Other Bets increases our ability enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners. Our brands may negatively affected number factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared our platforms, data privacy and security issues and developments, and product technical performance failures. For example, fail appropriately respond the sharing misinformation objectionable content our services and products objectionable practices advertisers, otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence our brands. Furthermore, failure maintain and enhance equity our brands may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our success will depend largely our ability remain technology leader and continue provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play valuable role range settings. face number manufacturing and supply chain risks that, not properly managed, could harm our financial condition, operating results, and prospects. face number risks related manufacturing and supply chain management, which could affect our ability supply both our products and our internet-based services. rely other companies manufacture many our finished products, design certain our components and parts, and participate the distribution our products and services. Our business could negatively affected are not able engage these companies with the necessary capabilities capacity reasonable terms, those engage fail meet their obligations (whether due financial difficulties other reasons), make adverse changes the pricing other material terms our arrangements with them. have experienced and may experience supply shortages and price increases driven raw material, component part availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, tariffs, trade disputes Alphabet Inc. and barriers, natural disasters pandemics (including COVID- ), the effects climate change (such sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), and significant changes the financial business condition our suppliers. have experienced and may the future, experience shortages other supply chain disruptions that could negatively affect our operations. addition, some the components use our technical infrastructure and products are available from only one limited sources, and may not able find replacement vendors favorable terms the event supply chain disruption. addition, significant supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades expansions and delay product availability. may enter into long term contracts for materials and products that commit significant terms and conditions. may liable for materials and products that are not consumed due market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because certain our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing minimum purchase requirements, the volume our hardware sales decreases does not reach projected targets, could face increased materials and manufacturing costs other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit manufacture and negatively affect our financial results. Furthermore, certain our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may affect our supply. Our products and services may have quality issues resulting from design, manufacturing, operations. Sometimes, these issues may caused components purchase from other manufacturers suppliers. the quality our products and services does not meet expectations our products services are defective, could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. require our suppliers and business partners comply with laws and, where applicable, our company policies, such the Google Supplier Code Conduct, regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but not control them their practices. Violations law unethical business practices could result supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, harm key relationships, and damage our reputation. Their failure procure necessary license rights intellectual property, could affect our ability sell our products services and expose litigation financial claims. Interruption, interference with, failure our complex information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability effectively provide our products and services, which could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. addition, complications with the design implementation our new global enterprise resource planning system could harm our business and operations. The availability our products and services and fulfillment our customer contracts depend the continuing operation our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable damage, interference, interruption from modifications upgrades, terrorist attacks, natural disasters pandemics (including COVID- ), the effects climate change (such sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, ransomware attacks, computer denial service attacks, phishing schemes, other attempts harm access our systems. Some our data centers are located areas with high risk major earthquakes other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts vandalism, and, some cases, potential disruptions resulting from problems experienced facility operators. Some our systems are not fully redundant, and disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence natural disaster pandemic (including COVID- ), closure facility, other unanticipated problems , impacting, our data centers could result lengthy interruptions our service. addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors vulnerabilities, which could result interruptions failure our services systems. addition, rely extensively information systems and technology manage our business and summarize operating results. are the process multi-year implementation new ERP system, which will replace much our existing core financial systems. The ERP system designed accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow financial information, improve data management, and provide timely information our management team. may not able successfully implement the ERP system without experiencing delays, increased costs, and other difficulties. Failure successfully design and implement the new ERP system planned could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Additionally, not effectively implement the ERP system planned the ERP system does not operate intended, the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting could negatively affected. Alphabet Inc. Our international operations expose additional risks that could harm our business, our financial condition, and operating results. Our international operations are significant our revenues and net income, and plan continue grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately % our consolidated revenues . addition risks described elsewhere this section, our international operations expose other risks, including the following: • Restrictions foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent from repatriating cash earned countries outside the . • Import and export requirements, tariffs and other market access barriers that may prevent impede from offering products providing services particular market, that could limit our ability source assemblies and finished products from particular market, and may increase our operating costs. • Longer payment cycles some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels payment fraud. • Evolving foreign events, including the effect the United Kingdom\' withdrawal from the European Union, may adversely affect our revenues and could subject new regulatory costs and challenges (including the transfer personal data between the and the United Kingdom and new customer requirements), addition other adverse effects that are unable effectively anticipate. • Anti-corruption laws, such the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting certain payments government officials, violations which could result civil and criminal penalties. • Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty result local laws and lack legal precedent. • Different employee employer relationships, existence works councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused distance, language, and cultural differences, making harder business certain jurisdictions. Because conduct business currencies other than . dollars but report our financial results . dollars, face exposure fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings, particularly light market volatilities due COVID- . Hedging programs are also inherently risky and could expose additional risks that could harm our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related our Industry People access the Internet through variety platforms and devices that continue evolve with the advancement technology and user preferences. manufacturers and users not widely adopt versions our products and services developed for these interfaces, our business could harmed. People access the Internet through growing variety devices such desktop computers, mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-activated speakers, wearables, automobiles, and television-streaming devices. Our products and services may less popular some interfaces. Each manufacturer distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not available may only available with limited functionality for our users our advertisers these devices result. Some manufacturers may also elect not include our products their devices. addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via voice-activated speakers, apps, social media other platforms, which could harm our business. hard predict the challenges may encounter adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. expect continue devote significant resources creating and supporting products and services across multiple platforms and devices. Failing attract and retain substantial number new device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users, failing develop products and technologies that work well new devices and platforms, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results and ability capture future business opportunities. Data privacy and security concerns relating our technology and our practices could damage our reputation, cause incur significant liability, and deter current and potential users customers from using our products and services. Software bugs defects, security breaches, and attacks our systems could result the improper disclosure and use user data and interference with our users and customers’ ability use our products and services, harming our business operations and reputation. Alphabet Inc. Concerns about our practices with regard the collection, use, disclosure, security personal information other data-privacy-related matters, even unfounded, could harm our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Our policies and practices may change over time expectations regarding privacy and data change. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission proprietary and other sensitive information, and bugs, theft, misuse, defects, vulnerabilities our products and services, and security breaches expose risk loss this information, improper use and disclosure such information, litigation, and other potential liability. Systems and control failures, security breaches, failure comply with our privacy policies, and inadvertent disclosure user data could result government and legal exposure, seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability attract and retain users customers. expect continue expend significant resources maintain security protections that shield against bugs, theft, misuse, security vulnerabilities breaches. experience cyber attacks and other attempts gain unauthorized access our systems regular basis. may experience future security issues, whether due employee error malfeasance system errors vulnerabilities our other parties’ systems, which could result significant legal and financial exposure. Government inquiries and enforcement actions, litigation, and adverse press coverage could harm our business. may unable anticipate detect attacks vulnerabilities implement adequate preventative measures. Attacks and security issues could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information, harming our business. While have dedicated significant resources privacy and security incident response capabilities, including dedicated worldwide incident response teams, our response process, particularly during times natural disaster pandemic (including COVID- ), may not adequate, may fail accurately assess the severity incident, may not respond quickly enough, may fail sufficiently remediate incident. result, may suffer significant legal, reputational, financial exposure, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our ongoing investments safety, security, and content review will likely continue identify abuse our platforms and misuse user data. addition our efforts mitigate cyber attacks, are making significant investments safety, security, and content review efforts combat misuse our services and unauthorized access user data third parties, including investigations and review platform applications that could access the information users our services. result these efforts, could discover incidents unnecessary access misuse user data other undesirable activity third parties. may not discover all such incidents activity, whether result our data limitations, including our lack visibility over our encrypted services, the scale activity our platform, other factors, including factors outside our control such natural disaster pandemic (including COVID- ), and may notified such incidents activity via third parties. Such incidents and activities may include the use user data our systems manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts policies, the existence false undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper purchases, activities that threaten people’ safety - offline, instances spamming, scraping, spreading disinformation. may also unsuccessful our efforts enforce our policies otherwise remediate any such incidents. Any the foregoing developments may negatively affect user trust and engagement, harm our reputation and brands, require change our business practices manner adverse our business, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Any such developments may also subject additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result monetary penalties and damages, divert management’ time and attention, and lead enhanced regulatory oversight. Problematic content our platforms, including low-quality user-generated content, web spam, content farms, and other violations our guidelines could affect the quality our services, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. , like others the industry, face violations our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts bad actors manipulate our hosting and advertising systems fraudulently generate revenues, otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest intent. While invest significantly efforts promote high-quality and relevant results and detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, may unable adequately detect and prevent such abuses promote high-quality content, particularly during times natural disaster pandemic (including COVID- ). Many websites violate attempt violate our guidelines, including seeking inappropriately rank higher search results than our search engine\' assessment their relevance and utility would rank them. Such efforts Alphabet Inc. (known “web spam”) may affect the quality content our platforms and lead them display false, misleading undesirable content. Although English-language web spam our search results has been reduced, and web spam most other languages limited, expect web spammers will continue seek inappropriate ways improve their rankings. continuously combat web spam our search results, including through indexing technology that makes harder for spam-like, less useful web content rank highly. also continue invest and deploy proprietary technology detect and prevent web spam from abusing our platforms. also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities low-quality content help them improve their search rankings. are continually launching algorithmic changes focused detecting and preventing abuse from low-quality websites. also face other challenges our platforms, including violations our content guidelines involving incidents such attempted election interference, activities that threaten the safety and well-being our users - offline, and the spreading disinformation, among other challenges. fail either detect and prevent increase problematic content effectively promote high-quality content, could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant information reduce use our platforms, harming our financial condition operating results. may also subject litigation and regulatory inquiries, which could result monetary penalties and damages, divert management’ time and attention, and lead enhanced regulatory oversight. Our business depends continued and unimpeded access the Internet and our users. Internet access providers may able restrict, block, degrade, charge for access certain our products and services, which could lead additional expenses and the loss users and advertisers. Our products and services depend the ability our users access the Internet, and certain our products require significant bandwidth work effectively. Currently, this access provided companies that have significant market power the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some these providers have taken, have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, increase the cost user access certain our products restricting prohibiting the use their infrastructure support facilitate our offerings, charging increased fees our users provide our offerings, providing our competitors preferential access. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms discrimination internet access providers; however, substantial uncertainty exists the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. For example, the United States Federal Communications Commission repealed net neutrality rules, which could permit internet access providers restrict, block, degrade, charge for access certain our products and services. addition, some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject government-initiated restrictions blockages. COVID- has also resulted quarantines, shelter place orders, and work from home directives, all which have increased demands for internet access and may create access challenges. These could result loss existing users, customers and advertisers, goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability attract new users, customers and advertisers, thereby harming our business. Risks Related Laws and Regulations face increased regulatory scrutiny well changes regulatory conditions, laws and policies governing wide range topics that may negatively affect our business. and other companies the technology industry face increased regulatory scrutiny, enforcement action, and other proceedings. For instance, the . Department Justice, joined number state Attorneys General, filed antitrust complaint against Google October , , alleging that Google violated . antitrust laws relating Search and Search advertising. Separately, December , , number state Attorneys General filed antitrust complaint against Google the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, alleging that Google violated . antitrust laws well state deceptive trade laws relating its advertising technology. Various other regulatory agencies the United States and around the world, including competition enforcers, consumer protection agencies, data protection authorities, grand juries, inter-agency consultative groups, and range other governmental bodies have and continue review our products and services and their compliance with laws and regulations around the world. continue cooperate with these investigations. Various laws, regulations, investigations, enforcement lawsuits, and regulatory actions have the past and may the future result substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing auditing and monitoring Alphabet Inc. obligations, changes our products and services, alterations our business models and operations, and collateral litigation, all which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Changes international and local social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions laws and policies governing wide range topics may increase our cost doing business, limit our ability pursue certain business models, offer products services certain jurisdictions, cause change our business practices. have the past had alter withdraw certain products and services result laws regulations that made them unfeasible, and new laws regulations, such the News Media Bargaining Code drafted the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission currently tabled parliament, could result our having alter withdraw products and services the future. These additional costs doing business, new limitations changes our business model practices could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. variety new and existing laws and interpretations could harm our business. are subject numerous . and foreign laws and regulations covering wide variety subject matters. New laws and regulations ( new interpretations applications existing laws and regulations manner inconsistent with our practices) may make our products and services less useful, limit our ability pursue certain business models offer certain products and services, require incur substantial costs, expose civil criminal liability, cause change our business practices. These laws and regulations are evolving and involve matters central our business, including, among others: • New competition laws and related regulations around the world, that can limit certain business practices, and some cases, create the risk significant penalties. • Privacy laws, such the California Consumer Privacy Act that came into effect January and the California Privacy Rights Act which will into effect , both which give new data privacy rights California residents, and - California, which regulates the security data connection with internet connected devices. • Data protection laws passed many states within the . and certain countries regarding notification data subjects and regulators when there security breach personal data. • New laws further restricting the collection, processing and sharing advertising-related data. • Copyright similar laws around the world, including the Directive Copyright the Digital Single Market (EUCD) April , , which Member States must implement June , ; and the News Media Bargaining Code drafted the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. These and similar laws that have been adopted proposed introduce new constraining licensing regimes that could affect our ability operate. The EUCD and similar laws could increase the liability some content-sharing services with respect content uploaded their users. Some these laws, well follow- administrative judicial actions, have also created may create new property right news publications that limits the ability some online services interact with present such content. They may also impose compensation negotiations with news agencies and publishers for the use such content, which may result payment obligations that significantly exceed the value that such content provides Google and its users. • Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types data collected particular country stored and processed within that country. • Various . and international laws that govern the distribution certain materials children and regulate the ability online services collect information from minors. • Various laws with regard content removal and disclosure obligations, such the Network Enforcement Act Germany, which may affect our businesses and operations and may subject significant fines such laws are interpreted and applied manner inconsistent with our practices when may not proactively discover such content due the scale third-party content and the limitations existing technologies. Other countries, including Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom, have implemented are considering similar legislation imposing penalties for failure remove certain types content. • Various legislative, litigation, and regulatory activity regarding our Google Play billing policies and business model, which could result monetary penalties, damages and prohibition. addition, the applicability and scope these laws, interpreted the courts, remain uncertain and could harm our business. For example: Alphabet Inc. • rely statutory safe harbors, set forth the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section the Communications Decency Act the United States and the -Commerce Directive Europe, against liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect . There are legislative proposals both the and that could reduce our safe harbor protection. • Court decisions such the judgment the Court Justice the European Union (CJEU) May , the ‘right forgotten,’ which allows individuals demand that Google remove search results about them certain instances, may limit the content can show our users and impose significant operational burdens. The introduction new businesses, products, services, and technologies, our activities certain jurisdictions, other actions take may subject additional laws and regulations. Our investment variety new fields, such healthcare and payment services, may expand the scope regulations that apply our business. The costs compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely increase the future. Any failure our part comply with laws and regulations can result negative publicity and diversion management time and effort and may subject significant liabilities and other penalties. are subject claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. are subject claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated our users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Due our manufacturing and sale expanded suite products, including hardware well Google Cloud offerings, also are subject variety claims including product warranty, product liability, and consumer protection claims related product defects, among other litigation. may also subject claims involving health and safety, hazardous materials usage, other environmental impacts, service disruptions failures. Any these types legal proceedings can have adverse effect because legal costs, diversion management resources, negative publicity and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. The resolution one more such proceedings has resulted , and may the future result , additional substantial fines, penalties, injunctions, and other sanctions that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. may subject legal liability associated with providing online services content. Our products and services let users exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage various online activities. also place advertisements displayed other companies’ websites, and offer third-party products, services, and content. The law relating the liability online service providers for others’ activities their services still somewhat unsettled around the world. Claims have been brought against for defamation, negligence, breaches contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, fraud, other legal theories based the nature and content information available via our services. may subject claims virtue our involvement hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, providing access content created third parties. Defense any such actions could costly and involve significant time and attention our management and other resources, may result monetary liabilities penalties, and may require change our business adverse manner. Privacy and data protection regulations are complex and rapidly evolving areas. Adverse interpretations these laws could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Authorities around the world have adopted and are considering number legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection and limits encryption user data. Adverse legal rulings, legislation, regulation could result fines and orders requiring that change our data practices, which could have adverse effect our ability provide services, harming our business operations. Complying with these evolving laws could result substantial costs and harm the quality our products and services, negatively affecting our business, and may particularly challenging during certain times, such natural disaster pandemic (including COVID- ). Recent legal developments Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding transfers personal data from Europe the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies all our activities conducted from establishment the related products and services that offer Alphabet Inc. users customers, the monitoring their behavior the . The GDPR creates range new compliance obligations. Ensuring compliance with the GDPR ongoing commitment that involves substantial costs, and despite our efforts, governmental authorities others have asserted and may continue assert that our business practices fail comply with its requirements. our operations are found violate GDPR requirements, may incur substantial fines, have change our business practices, and face reputational harm, any which could have adverse effect our business. particular, serious breaches the GDPR can result administrative fines % annual worldwide revenues. Fines % annual worldwide revenues can levied for other specified violations. The - . and the Swiss- . Privacy Shield frameworks allow . companies that self-certify the . Department Commerce and publicly commit comply with specified requirements import personal data from the and Switzerland. Recently, the CJEU ruled that the - . Privacy Shield invalid transfer mechanism, but upheld Standard Contractual Clauses valid transfer mechanism, provided they meet certain requirements. The validity data transfer mechanisms remains subject legal, regulatory, and political developments both Europe and the ., such recent recommendations from the European Data Protection Board, the invalidation the - . Privacy Shield and potential invalidation other data transfer mechanisms, which could have significant adverse impact our ability process and transfer personal data outside the EEA. These developments create some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause incur costs harm the operations our products and services ways that harm our business. face, and may continue face intellectual property and other claims that could costly defend, result significant damage awards other costs (including indemnification awards), and limit our ability use certain technologies the future. , like other internet, technology and media companies, are frequently subject litigation based allegations infringement other violations intellectual property rights. addition, patent-holding companies may frequently seek generate income from patents they have obtained bringing claims against . have grown, the number intellectual property claims against has increased and may continue increase develop new products, services, and technologies. have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against claiming that certain our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights others. Other parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against filing claims . and international courts and the . International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease-and-desist orders, which could limit our ability sell our products services the . elsewhere our products services those our customers suppliers are found infringe the intellectual property subject the claims. Adverse results any these lawsuits may include awards monetary damages, costly royalty licensing agreements ( licenses are available all), orders preventing from offering certain features, functionalities, products, services. They may also cause change our business practices and require development non-infringing products, services, technologies, which could result loss revenues for and otherwise harm our business. Many our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require defend against certain intellectual property infringement claims and some cases indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could result increased costs for defending such claims significant damages there were adverse ruling any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use our products, services, and technologies, result injunctions otherwise, which could result loss revenues and adversely affect our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered and our customers arising from intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, connection with our divestitures, have agreed, and may the future agree, provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. Regardless their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming and expensive litigate settle. the extent such claims are successful, they may harm our business, including our product and service offerings, financial condition, operating results. Risks Related Ownership our Stock cannot guarantee that any share repurchase program will fully consummated will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility our stock prices and could diminish our cash reserves . Alphabet Inc. engage share repurchases our Class capital stock from time time accordance with authorizations from the Board Directors Alphabet. Our repurchase program does not have expiration date and does not obligate Alphabet repurchase any specific dollar amount acquire any specific number shares. Further, our share repurchases could affect our share trading prices, increase their volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may suspended terminated any time, which may result decrease the trading prices our stock. The concentration our stock ownership limits our stockholders’ ability influence corporate matters. Our Class common stock has votes per share, our Class common stock has one vote per share, and our Class capital stock has voting rights. December , , Larry Page and Sergey Brin beneficially owned approximate % our outstanding Class common stock, which represented approximate % the voting power our outstanding common stock. Through their stock ownership, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election directors and significant corporate transactions, such merger other sale our company our assets, for the foreseeable future. addition, because our Class capital stock carries voting rights (except required applicable law), the issuance the Class capital stock, including future stock-based acquisition transactions and fund employee equity incentive programs, could continue Larry and Sergey’ current relative voting power and their ability elect all our directors and determine the outcome most matters submitted vote our stockholders. This concentrated control limits severely restricts other stockholders’ ability influence corporate matters and may take actions that some our stockholders not view beneficial, which could reduce the market price our Class common stock and our Class capital stock. Provisions our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions Alphabet’ certificate incorporation and bylaws may have the effect delaying preventing change control changes our management. These provisions include the following: • Our certificate incorporation provides for tri-class capital stock structure. result this structure, Larry and Sergey have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election directors and significant corporate transactions, such merger other sale our company our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, other change control transaction that other stockholders may view beneficial. noted above, the issuance the Class capital stock could have the effect continuing the influence Larry and Sergey. • Our Board Directors has the right elect directors fill vacancy created the expansion the Board Directors the resignation, death, removal director, which prevents stockholders from being able fill vacancies our Board Directors. • Our stockholders may not act written consent. result, holder, holders, controlling majority our capital stock would not able take certain actions without holding stockholders\' meeting. • Our certificate incorporation prohibits cumulative voting the election directors. This limits the ability minority stockholders elect director candidates. • Stockholders must provide advance notice nominate individuals for election the Board Directors propose matters that can acted upon stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage deter potential acquirer from conducting solicitation proxies elect the acquirer\' own slate directors otherwise attempting obtain control our company. • Our Board Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares undesignated preferred stock. The ability issue undesignated preferred stock makes possible for our Board Directors issue preferred stock with voting other rights preferences that could impede the success any attempt acquire . Delaware corporation, are also subject certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, corporation may not engage business combination with any holder % more its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years , among other things, the Board Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board Directors could rely Delaware law prevent delay acquisition . Alphabet Inc. General Risks The continuing impacts COVID- are highly unpredictable and could significant, and may have adverse effect our business, operations and our future financial performance. Since COVID- was declared global pandemic the World Health Organization, governments and municipalities around the world have instituted measures effort control the spread COVID- , including quarantines, shelter- -place orders, school closings, travel restrictions, and closure non-essential businesses. The macroeconomic impacts our business continue evolve and unpredictable and may continue adversely affect our business, operations and financial performance. result the scale the ongoing pandemic and the speed which the global community has been impacted, our revenue growth rate and expense percentage our revenues future periods may differ significantly from our historical rate, and our future operating results may fall below expectations. The future impacts the ongoing pandemic our business, operations and future financial performance could include, but are not limited : • Significant decline advertising revenues advertiser spending slows due economic downturn. This decline advertising revenues could persist through and beyond recessionary period. addition, may experience significant and prolonged shift user behavior such shift interests less commercial topics. • Significant decline other revenues due decline shifts customer demand. For example, consumer demand for electronics significantly declines, our hardware revenues could significantly impacted. • Adverse impacts our operating income, operating margin, net income, EPS and respective growth rates - particularly expenses not decrease across Alphabet the same pace revenue declines. Many our expenses are less variable nature and may not correlate changes revenues, including costs associated with our data centers and facilities well employee compensation. such, may not able decrease them significantly the short-term, may choose not significantly reduce them effort remain focused long-term outlook and investment opportunities. • Significant decline our operating cash flows result decreased advertiser spending and deterioration the credit quality and liquidity our customers, which could adversely affect our accounts receivable. Investing cash flows could decrease due slowing spend data center and facilities construction projects due slowing stopping construction significant restrictions placed construction. • The prolonged and broad-based shift remote working environment continues create inherent productivity, connectivity, and oversight challenges and could affect our ability enhance, develop and support existing products and services, detect and prevent spam and problematic content, hold product sales and marketing events, and generate new sales leads, among others. addition, the changed environment under which are operating could have effect our internal controls over financial reporting well our ability meet number our compliance requirements timely quality manner. Additional and extended, governmental lockdowns, restrictions new regulations could significantly impact the ability our employees and vendors work productively. Governmental restrictions have been globally inconsistent and remains unclear when return worksite locations travel will permitted what restrictions will place those environments. prepare return our workforce more locations back the office , may experience increased costs prepare our facilities for safe return work environment and experiment with hybrid work models, addition potential effects our ability compete effectively and maintain our corporate culture. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult predict and could cause our results fall short expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate result number factors, many outside our control. result, comparing our operating results (including our expenses percentage our revenues) period- -period basis may not meaningful, and you should not rely our past results indication our future performance. Our operating results future quarters may fall below expectations. Any these events could cause our stock price fall. Each the risk factors listed under this Item addition the following factors may affect our operating results: • Our ability attract user and customer adoption , and generate significant revenues from, new products, services, and technologies which have invested considerable time and resources. Alphabet Inc. • Our ability monetize traffic Google Search & other properties, YouTube and our Google Network Members\' properties across various devices. • The amount and timing operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related the maintenance and expansion our businesses, operations, and infrastructure. • Our focus long-term goals over short-term results. • The results our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies. • Our ability keep our products and services operational reasonable cost and without service interruptions. • The seasonal fluctuations internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended mask the cyclicality and seasonality our business. our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results fluctuate. • Geopolitical events, including trade disputes. • Changes global business macroeconomic conditions. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements our overall corporate strategy and use capital, and these transactions could material our financial condition and operating results. expect continue evaluate and enter into discussions regarding wide array such potential strategic transactions, which could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some the areas where face risks include: • Diversion management time and focus from operating our business challenges related acquisitions and other strategic transactions. • Failure successfully integrate and further develop the acquired business technology. • Implementation remediation controls, procedures, and policies the acquired company. • Integration the acquired company’ accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions. • Transition operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms. • Failure obtain required approvals timely basis, all, from governmental authorities, conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay prevent from completing transaction, otherwise restrict our ability realize the expected financial strategic goals transaction. • the case foreign acquisitions, the need integrate operations across different cultures and languages and address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention employees from the businesses acquire. • Liability for activities the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, data privacy and security issues, violations laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities. • Litigation other claims connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, other third parties. Our failure address these risks other problems encountered connection with our past future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause fail realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Our acquisitions and other strategic transactions could also result dilutive issuances our equity securities, the incurrence debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, impairment goodwill and purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any which could harm our financial condition operating results. Alphabet Inc. Also, the anticipated benefits value our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. connection with our divestitures, have agreed, and may the future agree, provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may harm our financial condition operating results. were lose the services key personnel, may not able execute our business strategy. Our future success depends large part upon the continued service key members our senior management team. For instance, Sundar Pichai critical the overall management Alphabet and its subsidiaries and plays important role the development our technology, maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All our executive officers and key employees are -will employees, and not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss key personnel could seriously harm our business. rely highly skilled personnel and, are unable retain motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, maintain our corporate culture, may not able grow effectively. Our performance largely depends the talents and efforts highly skilled individuals. Our ability compete effectively and our future success depends our continuing identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas our organization. Competition our industry for qualified employees intense, and certain our competitors have directly targeted our employees. addition, our compensation arrangements, such our equity award programs, may not always successful attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Restrictive immigration policy and regulatory changes may also impact our ability hire, mobilize retain some our global talent. addition, believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. our organization grows and evolves, may need implement more complex organizational management structures adapt our corporate culture and work environments ever-changing circumstances, such during times natural disaster pandemic (including COVID- ), and these changes could impact our ability compete effectively have adverse impact our corporate culture. are exposed fluctuations the market values our investments and, some instances, our financial statements incorporate valuation methodologies that are subjective nature resulting fluctuations over time. The market value our investments can negatively affected liquidity, credit deterioration losses, performance and financial results the underlying entities, foreign exchange rates, changes interest rates, including changes that may result from the implementation new benchmark rates, the effect new changing regulations, the stock market general, other factors. The effect COVID- our impairment assessment for non-marketable investments requires significant judgment due the uncertainty around the duration and severity the impact. measure certain our non-marketable equity and debt investments, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled the stock certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired business combination, fair value nonrecurring basis. The determination fair value involves use appropriate valuation methods and certain unobservable inputs, require management judgment and estimation, and may change over time. adjust the carrying value our non-marketable equity investments fair value for observable transactions identical similar investments the same issuer for impairments. All gains and losses non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized other income (expense), which increases the volatility our other income (expense). The unrealized gains and losses record our non-marketable equity securities any particular period may differ significantly from the realized gains losses ultimately experience such investments. result these factors, the value liquidity our cash equivalents, well our marketable and non-marketable securities could decline and result material impairment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. could subject changes tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation, exposure additional tax liabilities. Our future income taxes could negatively affected earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized legal entities certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes the valuation our deferred tax Alphabet Inc. assets liabilities, the application different provisions tax laws changes tax laws, regulations, accounting principles (including changes the interpretation existing laws), well certain discrete items. addition, are subject regular review and audit both domestic and foreign tax authorities. result, have received, and may the future receive, assessments multiple jurisdictions, including Europe, various tax-related assertions, such transfer-pricing adjustments permanent-establishment claims. Any adverse outcome such review audit could have negative effect our operating results and financial condition and could require change our business practices manner adverse our business. may also subject additional litigation and regulatory inquiries, resulting the diversion management’ time and attention. addition, the determination our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Although believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded our financial statements and may affect our financial results the period periods for which such determination made. Furthermore, due shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, rates various jurisdictions may subject significant changes ways that impair our financial results. Various jurisdictions around the world have enacted are considering digital services taxes, which could lead inconsistent and potentially overlapp ing international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) recently released proposals relating its initiative for modernizing international tax rules, with the goal having different countries implement modernized and aligned international tax framework, but there can guarantee that this will occur. addition, response significant market volatility and disruptions business operations resulting from the global spread COVID- , legislatures and taxing authorities many jurisdictions which operate may propose changes their tax rules. These changes could include modifications that have temporary effect, and more permanent changes. The impact these potential new rules , our long-term tax planning, and our effective tax rate could material. The trading price for our Class common stock and non-voting Class capital stock may continue volatile. The trading price our stock has times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue volatile. addition the factors discussed this report, the trading price our Class common stock and Class capital stock may fluctuate widely response various factors, many which are beyond our control, including, among others announcements our competitors acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, capital commitments; recommendations securities analysts changes their earnings estimates; announcements about our our competitors\' earnings that are not line with analyst expectations, the risk which enhanced, our case, because our policy not give guidance earnings; commentary industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless its accuracy; the volume shares Class common stock and Class capital stock available for public sale; sales Class common stock and Class capital stock our stockholders (including sales our directors, executive officers, and other employees); short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions shares our Class common stock and Class capital stock; the size, timing and share class any share repurchase program; and the perceived values Class common stock and Class capital stock relative one another. addition, the stock market general, which can affected various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated disproportionate the operating performance those companies. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price our Class common stock and our Class capital stock, regardless our actual operating performance. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our headquarters are located Mountain View, California. also own and lease office and building space the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which believe sufficient accommodate anticipated future growth. addition, own and lease office building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. own and operate data centers the ., Europe, South America, and Asia. believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are good condition and suitable for the conduct our business. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For description our material pending legal proceedings, please see Legal Matters Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - , which incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 4. ': 'MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. Alphabet Inc. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’ COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES October , , Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer Google Inc. pursuant Rule 12g- ( ) under the Exchange Act. Our Class common stock has been listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since August , and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April , . Prior August , , there was public market for our stock. Our Class common stock neither listed nor traded. Our Class capital stock has been listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “GOOG” since April , . Holders Record December , , there were approximately , and , stockholders record our Class common stock and Class capital stock, respectively. Because many our shares Class common stock and Class capital stock are held brokers and other institutions behalf stockholders, are unable estimate the total number stockholders represented these record holders. December , , there were approximately stockholders record our Class common stock. Dividend Policy have never declared paid any cash dividend our common capital stock. The primary use capital continues invest for the long term growth the business. regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form capital return stockholders. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The following table presents information with respect Alphabet\' repurchases Class capital stock during the quarter ended December , : Period Total Number Shares Purchased ( thousands) ( ) Average Price Paid per Share ( ) Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Programs ( thousands) ( ) Approximate Dollar Value Shares that May Yet Purchased Under the Program ( millions) October - , $ , , $ , November - , $ , , $ , December - , $ , , $ , Total , , ( ) The repurchases are being executed from time time, subject general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5- plans. The repurchase program does not have expiration date. Please refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for additional information related share repurchases. ( ) Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases. Alphabet Inc. Stock Performance Graphs The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class \' cumulative -Year total shareholder return common stock with the cumulative total returns the & index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance $ investment our common stock and each index (with the reinvestment all dividends) from December , December , . The returns shown are based historical results and are not intended suggest future performance. COMPARISON YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS COMMON STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the & Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$ invested December , stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Fiscal year ending December . Copyright © & , division The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. Alphabet Inc. The graph below matches Alphabet Inc. Class \' cumulative -Year total shareholder return capital stock with the cumulative total returns the & index, the NASDAQ Composite index, and the RDG Internet Composite index. The graph tracks the performance $ investment our Class capital stock and each index (with the reinvestment all dividends) from December , December , . The returns shown are based historical results and are not intended suggest future performance. COMPARISON CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* ALPHABET INC. CLASS CAPITAL STOCK Among Alphabet Inc., the & Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index *$ invested December , stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Fiscal year ending December . Copyright © & , division The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with Item “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing Item “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Annual Report Form - . The historical results are not necessarily indicative the results expected any future period. Year Ended December , ( millions, except per share amounts) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenues $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Income from operations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Basic net income per share Class and common stock $ $ $ $ $ Basic net income per share Class capital stock $ $ $ $ $ Diluted net income per share Class and common stock $ $ $ $ $ Diluted net income per share Class capital stock $ $ $ $ $ December , ( millions) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total long-term liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total stockholders’ equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT’ DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS Please read the following discussion and analysis our financial condition and results operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . have omitted discussion results where would redundant the discussion previously included Part , Item our Annual Report Form - . Trends Our Business The following long-term trends have contributed the results our consolidated operations, and anticipate that they will continue affect our future results: • Users\' behaviors and advertising continue shift online the digital economy evolves. The continuing shift from offline online world has contributed the growth our business since inception, contributing revenue growth, and expect that this online shift will continue benefit our business. • Users are increasingly using diverse devices and modalities access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from new formats. Our users are accessing the Internet via diverse devices and modalities, such smartphones, wearables and smart home devices, and want feel connected matter where they are what they are doing. seek expand our products and services stay front these trends order maintain and grow our business. generate our advertising revenues increasingly from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, the market for particular device type modality matures, our revenues may affected. For example, growth the global smartphone market has slowed due various factors, including increased market saturation developed countries, which can affect our mobile advertising revenue growth rates. expect TAC paid our distribution partners and Google Network Members increase our revenues grow and affected changes device mix; geographic mix; partner mix; partner agreement terms; the percentage queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms. expect these trends continue affect our revenue growth rates and put pressure our overall margins. • online advertising evolves, continue expand our product offerings which may affect our monetization. interactions between users and advertisers change and online user behavior evolves, continue expand and evolve our product offerings serve their changing needs. Over time, expect our monetization trends fluctuate. For example, have seen increase YouTube ads and Google Play ads, which monetize lower rate than our traditional search ads. • users developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue increase and movements foreign exchange rates affect such revenues. The shift online, well the advent the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside the ., including emerging markets, such India, where continue invest heavily and develop localized versions our products and relevant advertising programs useful our users these markets. This has led trend increased revenues from international markets over time, regions with emerging markets, such APAC, have demonstrated higher revenue growth rates. expect that our results will continue affected our performance these markets, particularly low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could impact our margins developing markets initially monetize lower rate than more mature markets. Our international revenues represent significant portion our revenues and are subject fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates relative the . dollar. While have foreign exchange risk management program designed reduce our exposure these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect our revenues and earnings. Alphabet Inc. • The portion our revenues that derive from non-advertising revenues increasing and may affect margins. Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. expect this trend continue focus expanding our offerings our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. Across these initiatives, currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales apps, -app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud services and subscription and other services. The margins these revenues vary significantly and may lower than the margins our advertising revenues. number our Other Bets initiatives are their initial development stages, and such, the sources revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues could volatile. • continue serve our users and expand our businesses, will invest heavily operating and capital expenditures. continue make significant & investments areas strategic focus such advertising, cloud, machine learning, and search, well new products and services. addition, expect continue invest land and buildings for data centers and offices, and information technology assets, which includes servers and network equipment, support the long-term growth our business. addition, acquisitions and strategic investments are important part our strategy and use capital, contributing the breadth and depth our offerings, expanding our expertise engineering and other functional areas, and building strong partnerships around strategic initiatives. For example, announced our Google for India Digitization Fund invest approximately $ billion into India over the next - years through mix equity investments, partnerships, and operational, infrastructure and ecosystem investments. • face continuing changes regulatory conditions, laws and public policies, which could impact our business practices and financial results. Changes social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions laws and policies governing wide range topics and related legal matters have resulted fines and caused change our business practices. these global trends continue, for example the recent antitrust complaints filed the . Department Justice and number state Attorneys General well the News Media Bargaining Code drafted the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, our cost doing business may increase and our ability pursue certain business models offer certain products services may limited. • Our employees are critical our success and expect continue investing them. Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. expect continue hiring talented employees around the globe and provide competitive compensation programs our employees. The Impact COVID- our Results and Operations late , outbreak COVID- emerged and March , was declared global pandemic the World Health Organization. Across the United States and the world, governments and municipalities instituted measures effort control the spread COVID- , including quarantines, shelter- -place orders, school closings, travel restrictions and the closure non-essential businesses. The macroeconomic impacts COVID- are significant and continue evolve, exhibited , among other things, rise unemployment, changes consumer behavior, and market volatility. began observe the impact COVID- and the related reductions global economic activity our financial results March when, despite increase users\' search activity, our advertising revenues declined compared the prior year due shift user search activity less commercial topics and reduced spending our advertisers. During the course the quarter ended June , , observed gradual return user search activity more commercial topics, followed increased spending our advertisers that continued throughout the second half . continue assess the realized and potential credit deterioration our customers due changes the macroeconomic environment, which has been reflected our allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable. Additionally, over the course the year experienced variability our margins many our expenses are less variable nature and may not correlate changes revenues, including costs associated with our data centers and facilities well employee compensation. Also, market volatility has contributed fluctuations the valuation our equity investments. Alphabet Inc. While continued make investments land and buildings for data centers, offices and information technology, slowed the pace our investments, primarily relates office facilities, result COVID- . The ongoing impact COVID- our business continues evolve and unpredictable. For example, the extent the pandemic disrupts economic activity globally , like other businesses, are not immune continued adverse impacts our business, operations and financial results from volatility advertising spending, changes user behavior and preferences, credit deterioration and liquidity our customers, depressed economic activity, volatility capital markets. The ongoing impact will depend number factors, including the duration and severity the pandemic; the uneven impact certain industries; advances testing, treatment and prevention including vaccines; and the macroeconomic impact government measures contain the spread the virus and related government stimulus measures. address the potential impact our business, over the near-term, continue evaluate the pace our investment plans, including, but not limited , our hiring, investments data centers, servers, network equipment, real estate and facilities, marketing and travel spending, well taking certain measures support our customers, our overall workforce, and communities operate . look return our workforce more locations back the office , may experience increased costs prepare our facilities for safe return work environment and experiment with hybrid work models. the same time, believe the current environment accelerating digital transformation and remain focused innovating and investing the services offer consumers and businesses. For example, relates Google Cloud, continue invest aggressively around the globe our - -market capabilities, product development and technical infrastructure support long term growth. The ongoing impact COVID- and the extent these measures have taken and the additional measures that may implement could have material impact our financial results. Our past results may not indicative our future performance, and historical trends our financial results may differ materially. Executive Overview The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results for the years ended December , and ( millions, except for per share information and percentages). Year Ended December , Revenues $ , $ , Increase revenues year over year % % Increase constant currency revenues year over year % % Operating income ( ) $ , $ , Operating margin ( ) % % Other income (expense), net $ , $ , Net Income ( ) $ , $ , Diluted EPS ( ) $ $ ( ) Results for include the effect the $ billion fine. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for further information. • Total revenues were $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increase Google Services segment revenues $ billion % and increase Google Cloud segment revenues $ billion %. Revenues from the United States, EMEA, APAC, and Other Americas were $ billion, $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. • Total cost revenues was $ billion, increase % year over year. TAC was $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increase revenues subject TAC. Other cost revenues were $ billion, increase % year over year, primarily driven increase data centers and other operations costs and content acquisition costs. Alphabet Inc. • Operating expenses were $ billion, increase % year over year primarily driven headcount growth and partially offset declines advertising and promotional expenses and travel and entertainment expenses. Other information: • Operating cash flow was $ billion. • Capital expenditures, which primarily included investments technical infrastructure, were $ billion. • Number employees was , December , . The majority new hires during the year were engineers and product managers. Our Segments Beginning the fourth quarter , report our segment results Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets: • Google Services includes products and services such ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales apps, -app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such YouTube Premium and YouTube . • Google Cloud includes Google’ infrastructure and data analytics platforms, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from fees received for Google Cloud Platform ("GCP") services and Google Workspace (formerly known Suite) collaboration tools. • Other Bets combination multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sale internet services well licensing and & services. Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such finance and legal, including fines and settlements, well costs associated with certain shared research and development activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related revenue are included corporate costs. Financial Results Revenues The following table presents our revenues type ( millions). Year Ended December , Google Search & other $ , $ , YouTube ads , , Google Network Members\' properties , , Google advertising , , Google other , , Google Services total , , Google Cloud , , Other Bets Hedging gains (losses) Total revenues $ , $ , Google Services Google advertising revenues Our advertising revenue growth, well the change paid clicks and cost-per-click Google Search & other properties and the change impressions and cost-per-impression Google Network Members\' properties and the correlation between these items, have been affected and may continue affected various factors, including: • advertiser competition for keywords; • changes advertising quality, formats, delivery policy; Alphabet Inc. • changes device mix; • changes foreign currency exchange rates; • fees advertisers are willing pay based how they manage their advertising costs; • general economic conditions including the impact COVID- ; • seasonality; and • traffic growth emerging markets compared more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels. Our advertising revenue growth rate has been affected over time result number factors, including challenges maintaining our growth rate revenues increase higher levels; changes our product mix; changes advertising quality formats and delivery; the evolution the online advertising market; increasing competition; our investments new business strategies; query growth rates; and shifts the geographic mix our revenues. also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue affected evolving user preferences, the acceptance users our products and services they are delivered diverse devices and modalities, our ability create seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements foreign currency exchange rates. Google advertising revenues consist primarily the following: • Google Search & other consists revenues generated Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated search distribution partners who use Google com their default search browsers, toolbars, etc.) and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; • YouTube ads consists revenues generated YouTube properties; and • Google Network Members\' properties consist revenues generated Google Network Members\' properties participating AdMob, AdSense, and Google Manager. Google Search & other Google Search & other revenues increased $ , million from . The overall growth was primarily driven interrelated factors including increases search queries resulting from ongoing growth user adoption and usage, primarily mobile devices, growth advertiser spending primarily the second half the year, and improvements have made formats and delivery. This increase was partially offset decline advertiser spending primarily the first half the year driven the impact COVID- . YouTube ads YouTube ads revenues increased $ , million from . Growth was primarily driven our direct response advertising products, which benefited from improvements formats and delivery and increased advertiser spending. Brand advertising products also contributed growth despite revenues being adversely impacted decline advertiser spending primarily the first half the year driven the impact COVID- . Google Network Members\' properties Google Network Members\' properties revenues increased $ , million from . The growth was primarily driven strength AdMob and Google Manager. Use Monetization Metrics Paid clicks for our Google Search & other properties represent engagement users and include clicks advertisements end-users Google search properties and other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Historically, included certain viewed YouTube engagement ads and the related revenues our paid clicks and cost-per-click monetization metrics. Over time, advertising YouTube has expanded multiple advertising formats and the type viewed engagement ads historically included paid clicks and cost-per-click metrics have increasingly covered smaller portion YouTube advertising revenues. result, removed these ads and the related revenues from the paid clicks and cost-per-click metrics for the current and historical periods presented. The revised metrics provide better understanding monetization trends the properties included within Google Search & other, they now more closely correlate with the related changes revenues. Impressions for our Google Network Members\' properties include impressions displayed users served Google Network Members\' properties participating primarily AdMob, AdSense and Google Manager. Cost-per-click defined click-driven revenues divided our total number paid clicks and represents the average amount charge advertisers for each engagement users. Alphabet Inc. Cost-per-impression defined impression-based and click-based revenues divided our total number impressions and represents the average amount charge advertisers for each impression displayed users. our business evolves, periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number paid clicks our Google Search & other properties and the number impressions Google Network Members’ properties and for identifying the revenues generated click activity our Google Search & other properties and the revenues generated impression activity Google Network Members’ properties. Paid clicks and cost-per-click The following table presents changes our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed percentage): Year Ended December , Paid clicks change % % Cost-per-click change ( ) % ( ) % Paid clicks increased from primarily due increase clicks due interrelated factors, resulting from ongoing growth user adoption and usage, primarily mobile devices; continued growth advertiser activity; and improvements have made formats and delivery. Growth was also driven increase clicks relating ads Google Play. The positive effect our revenues from increase paid clicks was partially offset decrease the cost-per-click paid our advertisers. The decrease cost-per-click was primarily driven reduced advertiser spending response COVID- primarily during the first half the year. The decrease cost-per-click was also affected changes device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations the . dollar compared certain foreign currencies. Paid clicks increased from primarily due increase clicks due interrelated factors, including increase search queries resulting from ongoing growth user adoption and usage, primarily mobile devices; continued growth advertiser activity; and improvements have made formats and delivery. Growth was also driven increase clicks relating ads Google Play. The positive effect our revenues from increase paid clicks was partially offset decrease the cost-per-click paid our advertisers. The decrease cost-per-click was driven changes device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations the . dollar compared certain foreign currencies. Impressions and cost-per-impression The following table presents changes our impressions and cost-per-impression (expressed percentage): Year Ended December , Impressions change % Cost-per-impression change ( ) % Impressions increased from primarily due growth Google Manager. The positive effect our revenues from increase impressions was partially offset decrease the cost-per-impression paid our advertisers which was driven reduction advertiser spending response COVID- , primarily during the first half the year, well the effect combination factors including ongoing product and policy changes and improvements have made formats and delivery, changes device mix, geographic mix, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations the . dollar compared certain foreign currencies. Google other revenues Google other revenues consist primarily revenues from: • Google Play, which includes revenues from sales apps and -app purchases (which recognize net payout developers) and digital content sold the Google Play store; • hardware, including Google Nest home products, Pixelbooks, Pixel phones and other devices; • YouTube non-advertising, including YouTube Premium and YouTube subscriptions and other services; and • other products and services. Alphabet Inc. Google other revenues increased $ , million from . The growth was primarily driven Google Play and YouTube non-advertising. Growth for Google Play was primarily driven sales apps and -app purchases, which benefited from elevated user engagement partially due the impact COVID- . Growth for YouTube non-advertising was primarily driven increase paid subscribers. Over time, our growth rate for Google other revenues may affected the seasonality associated with new product and service launches well market dynamics. Google Cloud Our Google Cloud revenues increased $ , million from . The growth was primarily driven GCP followed our Google Workspace offerings. Our infrastructure and our data and analytics platform products were the largest drivers growth GCP. Over time, our growth rate for Google Cloud revenues may affected customer usage, market dynamics, well new product and service launches. Revenues Geography The following table presents our revenues geography percentage revenues, determined based the addresses our customers: Year Ended December , United States % % EMEA % % APAC % % Other Americas % % For further details revenues geography, see Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Use Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Percentage Change The effect currency exchange rates our business important factor understanding period period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably affected the . dollar weakens relative other foreign currencies, and unfavorably affected the . dollar strengthens relative other foreign currencies. Our revenues are also favorably affected net hedging gains and unfavorably affected net hedging losses. use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and non-GAAP percentage change constant currency revenues for financial and operational decision-making and means evaluate period- -period comparisons. believe the presentation results constant currency basis addition . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") results helps improve the ability understand our performance because they exclude the effects foreign currency volatility that are not indicative our core operating results. Constant currency information compares results between periods exchange rates had remained constant period over period. define constant currency revenues total revenues excluding the effect foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use determine the constant currency revenue percentage change year- -year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, well excluding any hedging effects realized the current period. Constant currency revenue percentage change calculated determining the change period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues both periods. These results should considered addition , not substitute for, results reported accordance with GAAP. Results constant currency basis, present them, may not comparable similarly titled measures used other companies and are not measure performance presented accordance with GAAP. Alphabet Inc. The following table presents the foreign exchange effect our international revenues and total revenues ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , EMEA revenues $ , $ , Exclude foreign exchange effect current period revenues using prior year rates , ( ) EMEA constant currency revenues $ , $ , Prior period EMEA revenues $ , $ , EMEA revenue percentage change % % EMEA constant currency revenue percentage change % % APAC revenues $ , $ , Exclude foreign exchange effect current period revenues using prior year rates APAC constant currency revenues $ , $ , Prior period APAC revenues $ , $ , APAC revenue percentage change % % APAC constant currency revenue percentage change % % Other Americas revenues $ , $ , Exclude foreign exchange effect current period revenues using prior year rates Other Americas constant currency revenues $ , $ , Prior period Other Americas revenues $ , $ , Other Americas revenue percentage change % % Other Americas constant currency revenue percentage change % % United States revenues $ , $ , United States revenue percentage change % % Hedging gains (losses) Total revenues $ , $ , Total constant currency revenues $ , $ , Prior period revenues, excluding hedging effect ( ) $ , $ , Total revenue percentage change % % Total constant currency revenue percentage change % % ( ) Total revenues and hedging gains (losses) for the year ended December , were $ , million and $( ) million, respectively. EMEA revenue percentage change from was not significantly affected foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar weakening relative the Euro offset the . dollar strengthening relative the Turkish lira and Russian ruble. APAC revenue percentage change from was not significantly affected foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Indian rupee, partially offset the . dollar weakening relative the Japanese yen. Other Americas revenue percentage change from was unfavorably affected changes foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due the . dollar strengthening relative the Brazilian real and Argentine peso. Alphabet Inc. Costs and Operating Expenses Cost Revenues Cost revenues includes TAC which are paid our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services, and amounts paid Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed their properties. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. The cost revenues percentage revenues generated from ads placed Google Network Members\' properties are significantly higher than the cost revenues percentage revenues generated from ads placed Google properties (which includes Google Search & other and YouTube ads), because most the advertiser revenues from ads served Google Network Members’ properties are paid TAC our Google Network Members. Additionally, other cost revenues (which the cost revenues excluding TAC) includes the following: • Content acquisition costs primarily related payments content providers from whom license video and other content for distribution YouTube advertising and subscription services and Google Play ( pay fees these content providers based revenues generated flat fee); • Expenses associated with our data centers (including bandwidth, compensation expenses including stock-based compensation ("SBC"), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs) well other operations costs (such content review and customer support costs). These costs are generally less variable nature and may not correlate with related changes revenues; and • Inventory related costs for hardware sell. The following tables present our cost revenues, including TAC ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , TAC $ , $ , Other cost revenues , , Total cost revenues $ , $ , Total cost revenues percentage revenues % % Cost revenues increased $ , million from . The increase was due increases other cost revenues and TAC $ , million and $ , million, respectively. The increase other cost revenues from was due increase data center and other operations costs and increase content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube. This increase was partially offset decline hardware costs. The increase TAC from was due increases TAC paid distribution partners and Google Network Members, driven growth revenues subject TAC. The TAC rate was % both and . The TAC rate Google properties revenues and the TAC rate Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from . Over time, cost revenues percentage total revenues may affected number factors, including the following: • The amount TAC paid distribution partners, which affected changes device mix, geographic mix, partner mix, partner agreement terms such revenue share arrangements, and the percentage queries channeled through paid access points; • The amount TAC paid Google Network Members, which affected combination factors such geographic mix, product mix, and revenue share terms; • Relative revenue growth rates Google properties and Google Network Members\' properties; • Certain costs that are less variable nature and may not correlate with the related revenues; • Costs associated with our data centers and other operations support ads, Google Cloud, Search, YouTube and other products; • Content acquisition costs, which are primarily affected the relative growth rates our YouTube advertising and subscription revenues; • Costs related hardware sales; and • Increased proportion non-advertising revenues, which generally have higher costs revenues, relative our advertising revenues. Alphabet Inc. Research and Development The following table presents our & expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , Research and development expenses $ , $ , Research and development expenses percentage revenues % % & expenses consist primarily : • Compensation expenses (including SBC) for engineering and technical employees responsible for & our existing and new products and services; • Depreciation expenses; • Equipment-related expenses; and • Professional services fees primarily related consulting and outsourcing services. & expenses increased $ , million from . The increase was primarily due increase compensation expenses $ , million, largely resulting from % increase headcount and partially offset higher compensation charges certain Other Bets . Additionally, the increase & expenses was partially offset decrease travel and entertainment expenses $ million. Over time, & expenses percentage revenues may fluctuate due certain expenses that are generally less variable nature and may not correlate the changes revenues. addition, & expenses may affected number factors including continued investment ads, Android, Chrome, Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware, machine learning, Other Bets, Search and YouTube. Sales and Marketing The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , Sales and marketing expenses $ , $ , Sales and marketing expenses percentage revenues % % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily : • Advertising and promotional expenditures related our products and services; and • Compensation expenses (including SBC) for employees engaged sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million from . The decrease was primarily due decrease advertising and promotional expenses $ , million, reduced spending and paused rescheduled campaigns and changed some events digital-only formats result COVID- , and decrease travel and entertainment expenses $ million. The decrease was partially offset increase compensation expenses $ , million, largely resulting from % increase headcount. Over time, sales and marketing expenses percentage revenues may fluctuate due certain expenses that are generally less variable nature and may not correlate the changes revenues. addition, sales and marketing expenses may affected number factors including the seasonality associated with new product and service launches and strategic decisions regarding the timing and extent our spending. General and Administrative The following table presents our general and administrative expenses ( millions, except percentages): Year Ended December , General and administrative expenses $ , $ , General and administrative expenses percentage revenues % % General and administrative expenses consist primarily : • Compensation expenses (including SBC) for employees our finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations; • Depreciation; Alphabet Inc. • Equipment-related expenses; • Legal-related expenses; and • Professional services fees primarily related audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services. General and administrative expenses increased $ , million from . The increase was primarily due increase compensation expenses $ million, largely resulting from % increase headcount. addition, there was increase $ million related allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable. The increase was partially offset $ million charge recognized relating legal settlement. Over time, general and administrative expenses percentage revenues may fluctuate due certain expenses that are generally less variable nature and may not correlate the changes revenues, the effect discrete items such legal settlements, allowances for credit losses for accounts receivable. European Commission Fines March , the announced its decision that certain contractual provisions agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The decision imposed € billion ( $ billion March , ) fine, which was accrued the first quarter . Please refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for further information. Segment Profitability The following table presents our segment operating income (loss) ( millions). For comparative purposes, amounts prior periods have been recast. Year Ended December , Operating income (loss): Google Services $ , $ , $ , Google Cloud ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other Bets ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Corporate costs, unallocated ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total income from operations $ , $ , $ , ( ) Corporate costs, unallocated includes fine $ billion for the year ended December , and fine and legal settlement totaling $ billion for the year ended December , . Google Services Google services operating income increased $ , million from . The increase was primarily driven increase revenues partially offset increases content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube, data center and other operations costs, and TAC. Additionally, there was increase operating expenses primarily driven increase compensation expenses (including SBC) largely due increases headcount. Operating income benefited from decline hardware costs. Google services operating income increased $ , million from . The increase was primarily driven increase revenues partially offset increases TAC, data center and other operations costs, and content acquisition costs primarily for YouTube. Additionally, there was increase operating expenses primarily driven increase compensation expenses (including SBC) largely due increase headcount. Google Cloud Google Cloud operating loss increased $ million from and increased $ million from . The increase operating loss both periods was driven increase total expenses $ , million from and $ , million from . Operating expenses increased primarily due compensation expenses (including SBC), largely driven increase headcount. Additionally, data center and other operating costs increased both periods. Other Bets Other Bets operating loss decreased $ million from and increased $ , million from . The fluctuations were primarily driven compensation expenses (including SBC). Alphabet Inc. Other Income (Expense), Net The following table presents other income (expense), net, ( millions): Year Ended December , Other income (expense), net $ , $ , Other income (expense), net, increased $ , million from . The change was primarily driven increase net gains equity and debt securities $ , million, partially offset $ million loss resulting from our equity derivatives, which hedged the changes fair value certain marketable equity securities, and decrease interest income $ million. Over time, other income (expense), net, may affected market dynamics and other factors. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and upon the occurrence observable price changes upon impairment non-marketable equity securities. addition, volatility the global economic climate and financial markets, including the effects COVID- , could result significant change the value our investments. Fluctuations the value these investments has, and expect will continue , contribute volatility & future periods. For additional information about our investments, see Note and Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Provision for Income Taxes The following table presents our provision for income taxes ( millions, except for effective tax rate): Year Ended December , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from . The increase the provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate primarily due benefits related the resolution multi-year audits that did not recur , higher earnings countries that have higher statutory rates resulting from the change our corporate legal entity structure implemented December , , and increase valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets that are not likely realized relating certain our Other Bets, partially offset increase the . federal Foreign-Derived Intangible Income tax deduction benefits. See Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for further information. expect our future effective tax rate affected the geographic mix earnings countries with different statutory rates. Additionally, our future effective tax rate may affected changes the valuation our deferred tax assets liabilities, changes tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, well certain discrete items. Alphabet Inc. Quarterly Results Operations The following tables presenting our quarterly results operations should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . have prepared the unaudited information the same basis our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future quarters for full year. The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results operations for the eight quarters ended December , . This table includes all adjustments, consisting only normal recurring adjustments, that consider necessary for fair presentation our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Seasonal fluctuations internet usage and advertiser expenditures, underlying business trends such traditional retail seasonality and macroeconomic conditions have affected, and are likely continue affect, our business (including developments and volatility arising from COVID- ). Commercial queries typically increase significantly the fourth quarter each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue cause, fluctuations our quarterly results, including fluctuations sequential revenue growth rates. Quarter Ended Mar , Jun , Sept , Dec , Mar , Jun , Sept , Dec , ( millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenues $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , Costs and expenses: Cost revenues , , , , , , , , Research and development , , , , , , , , Sales and marketing , , , , , , , , General and administrative , , , , , , , , European Commission fines , Total costs and expenses , , , , , , , , Income from operations , , , , , , , , Other income (expense), net , , ( ) , ( ) , , , Income before income taxes , , , , , , , , Provision for income taxes , , , , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , Basic net income per share Class and common stock and Class capital stock $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted net income per share Class and common stock and Class capital stock $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Financial Condition Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities December , , had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. equivalents and marketable securities comprised time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and marketable equity securities. Sources, Uses Cash and Related Trends Our principal sources liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, well the cash flow that generate from our operations. The primary use capital continues invest for the long term growth the business. regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace and form capital return stockholders. Alphabet Inc. The following table presents our cash flows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , Net cash used investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash used financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cash Provided Operating Activities Our largest source cash provided our operations are advertising revenues generated Google Search & other properties, Google Network Members\' properties and YouTube ads. Additionally, generate cash through sales apps, -app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings and subscription-based products. Our primary uses cash from our operating activities include compensation and related costs, payments our distribution partners and Google Network Members, and payments for content acquisition costs. addition, uses cash from operating activities include hardware inventory costs, income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures. Net cash provided operating activities increased from primarily due the net effect increases cash received from revenues and cash paid for cost revenues and operating expenses, and changes operating assets and liabilities. Cash Used Investing Activities Cash provided investing activities consists primarily maturities and sales our investments marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used investing activities consists primarily purchases marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions. Net cash used investing activities increased from primarily due net increase purchases securities, partially offset decreases payments for acquisitions and purchases property and equipment. The net decrease purchases property and equipment was driven decreases purchases land and buildings for offices well data center construction, partially offset increases purchases servers. Cash Used Financing Activities Cash provided financing activities consists primarily proceeds from issuance debt and proceeds from the sale interest consolidated entities. Cash used financing activities consists primarily repurchases capital stock, net payments related stock-based award activities, and repayments debt. Net cash used financing activities increased from primarily due increase cash payments for repurchases capital stock, partially offset increases net proceeds from issuance debt and proceeds from the sale interest consolidated entities. Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities continue sufficient fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. December , , had long-term taxes payable $ billion related one-time transition tax payable incurred result the . Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). permitted the Tax Act, will pay the transition tax annual interest-free installments through . , and , the announced decisions that certain actions taken Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines € billion ($ billion June , ), € billion ($ billion June , ), and € billion ($ billion March , ), respectively. While each decision under appeal, included the fines accrued expenses and other current liabilities our Consolidated Balance Sheets provided bank guarantees ( lieu cash payment) for the fines. January , closed the acquisition Fitbit, leading wearables brand, for $ billion. have short-term debt financing program $ billion through the issuance commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. December , , had commercial paper outstanding. December , , have $ billion revolving credit facilities expiring Alphabet Inc. July with amounts outstanding. The interest rate for the credit facilities determined based formula using certain market rates. August , issued $ billion fixed-rate senior unsecured notes six tranches: $ billion due , $ billion due , $ billion due , $ billion due , $ billion due and $ billion due . The Notes had weighted average duration years and weighted average coupon rate %. the total issuance, $ billion was designated Sustainability Bonds, the net proceeds which are used fund environmentally and socially responsible projects the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID- crisis response. The remaining net proceeds are used for general corporate purposes. December , , have senior unsecured notes outstanding with total carrying value $ billion. Refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for further information the debts. accordance with the authorizations the Board Directors Alphabet, repurchased and subsequently retired million shares Alphabet Class capital stock for aggregate amount $ billion. December , , $ billion remains authorized and available for repurchase. The repurchases are being executed from time time, subject general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5- plans. The repurchase program does not have expiration date. Refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Capital Expenditures and Leases make investments land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases property and equipment and lease arrangements provide capacity for the growth our services and products. Our capital investments property and equipment consist primarily the following major categories: • Technical infrastructure, which consists our investments servers and network equipment for compute, storage and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including machine learning, (collectively referred our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and • Office facilities, ground development projects and related building improvements. Due the integrated nature Alphabet, our technical infrastructure and office facilities are managed centrally consolidated level. The associated costs, including depreciation and impairment, are allocated operating segments service cost generally based usage headcount. Our technical infrastructure investments are designed support all Alphabet, including primarily ads, Google Cloud, Search, and YouTube. Construction progress consists primarily technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed service for our intended use. The time frame from date purchase placement service these assets may extend multiple periods. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple phases, where acquire qualified land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets. During the years ended December , and , spent $ billion and $ billion capital expenditures and recognized total operating lease assets $ billion and $ billion, respectively. December , , the amount total future lease payments under operating leases, which had weighted average remaining lease term years, was $ billion. December , , have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments $ billion, excluding purchase options, that are not yet recorded our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between and with non-cancelable lease terms years. Depreciation our property and equipment commences when the deployment such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land not depreciated. For the years ended December , and , our depreciation and impairment expenses property and equipment were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. For the years ended December , and , our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs), were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Finance leases were not material for the years ended December , and . Please refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for further information the leases. Alphabet Inc. Contractual Obligations December , The following summarizes our contractual obligations December , ( millions): Payments Due Period Total Less than year - years - years More than years Operating lease obligations ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Obligations for leases that have not yet commenced ( ) , , , , Purchase obligations ( ) , , , Long-term debt obligations ( ) , , , , Tax payable ( ) , , , Other long-term liabilities reflected our balance sheet ( ) , Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) For further information, refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . ( ) Represents non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related data center operations and build-outs; information technology assets; purchases inventory; and digital media content licensing arrangements. The amounts included above represent the non-cancelable portion agreements the minimum cancellation fee. For those agreements with variable terms, not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and pricing December , . Excluded from the table above are open orders for purchases that support normal operations, which are generally cancelable. ( ) Represents our principal and interest payments. For further information long-term debt, refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . ( ) Represents one-time transition tax payable incurred result the Tax Act. For further information, refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Excluded from the table above are long-term taxes payable $ billion December , primarily related uncertain tax positions, for which are unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments individual years beyond months due uncertainties the timing and outcomes tax audits. ( ) Represents cash obligations recorded our Consolidated Balance Sheets, including the short-term portion these long-term liabilities, primarily for certain commercial agreements. These amounts not include the fines which are classified current liabilities our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For further information regarding the fines, refer Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements December , , did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, defined Item ( )( )( ) Regulation - , that have are reasonably likely have current future effect our financial condition, changes our financial condition, revenues, expenses, results operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources that material investors. See Note included Part , Item this annual report Form - for more information our commitments and contingencies. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates prepare our consolidated financial statements accordance with GAAP. doing , have make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, gains and losses, well related disclosure contingent assets and liabilities. some cases, could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. some cases, changes the accounting estimates are reasonably likely occur from period period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition results operations will affected. base our estimates past experience and other assumptions that believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and evaluate these estimates ongoing basis. refer accounting estimates this type critical accounting policies and estimates, which discuss further below. have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit and compliance committee our Board Directors. Please see Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item this Annual Report Form - for summary significant accounting policies and the effect our financial statements. Alphabet Inc. Revenues For the sale third-party goods and services, evaluate whether are the principal, and report revenues gross basis, agent, and report revenues net basis. this assessment, consider obtain control the specified goods services before they are transferred the customer, well other indicators such the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion establishing price. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the . and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although believe have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, assurance can given that the final tax outcome these matters will not different. adjust these reserves light changing facts and circumstances, such the closing tax audit the refinement estimate. the extent that the final tax outcome these matters different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate the period which such determination made. The provision for income taxes includes the effect reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate well the related net interest and penalties. addition, are subject the continuous examination our income tax returns the Internal Revenue Services ("IRS") and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against . regularly assess the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. Loss Contingencies are regularly subject claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated our users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain these matters include speculative claims for substantial indeterminate amounts damages. record liability when believe that probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. determine that loss reasonably possible and the loss range loss can estimated, disclose the possible loss the Notes the Consolidated Financial Statements. evaluate, regular basis, developments our legal matters that could affect the amount liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes our disclosures appropriate. Significant judgment required determine both the likelihood there being, and the estimated amount , loss related such matters. Until the final resolution such matters, there may exposure loss excess the amount recorded, and such amounts could material. Should any our estimates and assumptions change prove have been incorrect, could have material effect our business, consolidated financial position, results operations, cash flows. Long-lived Assets Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. The evaluation performed the lowest level identifiable cash flows independent other assets. impairment loss would recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement impairment loss would based the excess the carrying amount the asset group over its fair value. Fair Value Measurements measure certain our non-marketable equity and debt investments, certain other instruments including stock-based compensation awards settled the stock certain Other Bets, and certain assets and liabilities acquired business combination, fair value nonrecurring basis. The determination fair value involves the use appropriate valuation methods and relevant inputs into valuation models. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value whereby gives the highest priority quoted prices (unadjusted) active markets for identical assets liabilities and the lowest priority unobservable inputs. maximize the use relevant observable inputs and minimize the use unobservable inputs. Our use unobservable inputs reflects the assumptions that market participants would use and may include our own data adjusted based reasonably available information. apply judgment assessing the relevance observable market data determine the priority inputs under the fair value hierarchy, particularly situations where there very little market activity. Alphabet Inc. determining the fair values our non-marketable equity and debt investments, well assets acquired (especially with respect intangible assets) and liabilities assumed business combinations, make significant estimates and assumptions, some which include the use unobservable inputs. Certain stock-based compensation awards may settled the stock certain our Other Bets cash. These awards are based the equity values the respective Other Bet, which requires use unobservable inputs. also have compensation arrangements with payouts based realized investment returns, . performance fees. recognize compensation expense based the estimated payouts, which may result expense recognized before investment returns are realized, and may require the use unobservable inputs. Non-marketable Equity Securities Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are carried either fair value under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value measured cost, less any impairment, plus minus changes resulting from observable price changes orderly transactions for the identical similar investment the same issuer. Determining whether observed transaction similar security within our portfolio requires judgment based the rights and obligations the securities. Recording upward and downward adjustments the carrying value our equity securities result observable price changes requires quantitative assessments the fair value our securities using various valuation methodologies and involves the use estimates. Non-marketable equity securities are also subject periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors that may have significant effect the investment\' fair value. Qualitative factors considered include the companies\' financial and liquidity position, access capital resources and the time since the last adjustment fair value, among others. When indicators impairment exist, prepare quantitative assessments the fair value our equity investments using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data private and public companies, among others. When our assessment indicates that impairment exists, write down the investment its fair value. Change Accounting Estimate January , completed assessment the useful lives our servers and network equipment and determined should adjust the estimated useful life our servers from three years four years and the estimated useful life certain network equipment from three years five years. This change accounting estimate will effective beginning fiscal year . For assets that are -service December , , expect operating results favorably impacted approximately $ billion for the full fiscal year . The effect the change may different due our capital investments during the fiscal year . ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed financial market risks, including changes foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity investment risks. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk transact business globally multiple currencies. Our international revenues, well costs and expenses denominated foreign currencies, expose the risk fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates against the . dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen. For the purpose analyzing foreign currency exchange risk, considered the historical trends foreign currency exchange rates and determined that was reasonably possible that adverse changes exchange rates % could experienced the near term. use foreign exchange forward contracts offset the foreign exchange risk our assets and liabilities denominated currencies other than the functional currency the subsidiary. These forward contracts reduce, but not entirely eliminate, the effect foreign currency exchange rate movements our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses the assets and liabilities are recorded other income (expense), net, which are offset the gains and losses the forward contracts. adverse % foreign currency exchange rate change was applied total monetary assets, liabilities, and commitments denominated currencies other than the functional currencies the balance sheet date, would have resulted adverse effect income before income taxes approximately $ million and $ million Alphabet Inc. December , and , respectively, after consideration the effect foreign exchange contracts place for the years ended December , and . use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars ( option strategy comprised combination purchased and written options) protect our forecasted . dollar-equivalent earnings from changes foreign currency exchange rates. When the . dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related our earnings. When the . dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but not entirely eliminate, the effect foreign currency exchange rate movements. designate these contracts cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. reflect the gains losses foreign currency spot rate changes component AOCI and subsequently reclassify them into revenues offset the hedged exposures they occur. the . dollar weakened % December , and , the amount recorded AOCI related our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $ billion and $ million lower December , and , respectively. The change the value recorded AOCI would expected offset corresponding foreign currency change forecasted hedged revenues when recognized. use foreign exchange forward contracts designated net investment hedges hedge the foreign currency risks related our investment foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts serve offset the foreign currency translation risk from our foreign operations. the . dollar weakened %, the amount recorded cumulative translation adjustment ("CTA") within AOCI related our net investment hedge would have been approximately $ million and $ billion lower December , and , respectively. The change value recorded CTA would expected offset corresponding foreign currency translation gain loss from our investment foreign subsidiaries. Interest Rate Risk Our Corporate Treasury investment strategy achieve return that will allow preserve capital and maintain liquidity. invest primarily debt securities including those the . government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued foreign governments. policy, limit the amount credit exposure any one issuer. Our investments both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry degree interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted interest rates fall. Unrealized gains losses our marketable debt securities are primarily due interest rate fluctuations compared interest rates the time purchase. For certain fixed and variable rate debt securities, have elected the fair value option for which changes fair value are recorded other income (expense), net. measure securities for which have not elected the fair value option fair value with gains and losses recorded AOCI until the securities are sold, less any expected credit losses. use value- -risk ("VaR") analysis determine the potential effect fluctuations interest rates the value our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR the expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due adverse movements interest rates. use variance covariance VaR model with % confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss fair value our marketable debt securities December , and are shown below ( millions): December , -Month Average December , Risk Category - Interest Rate $ $ $ $ Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed December , and due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation. Equity Investment Risk Our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are subject wide variety market-related risks that could substantially reduce increase the fair value our holdings. Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks funds and our non-marketable equity securities are investments privately held companies, some which are the startup development stages. Alphabet Inc. record our marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method fair value based readily determinable market values, which publicly traded stocks and mutual funds are subject market price volatility, and represent $ billion and $ billion our investments December , and , respectively. hypothetical adverse price change % our December , balance, which could experienced the near term, would decrease the fair value our marketable equity securities $ billion. From time time, may enter into derivatives hedge the market price risk certain our marketable equity securities. Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are adjusted fair value for observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer impairment (referred the measurement alternative). The fair value measured the time the observable transaction not necessarily indication the current fair value the balance sheet date. These investments, especially those that are the early stages, are inherently risky because the technologies products these companies have under development are typically the early phases and may never materialize and they may experience decline financial condition, which could result loss substantial part our investment these companies. The success our investment any private company also typically dependent the likelihood our ability realize appreciation the value our investments through liquidity events such public offerings, acquisitions, private sales other market events. December , and , the carrying value our non-marketable equity securities, which were accounted for under the measurement alternative, was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Valuations our equity investments private companies are inherently more complex due the lack readily available market data. Volatility the global economic climate and financial markets could result significant impairment charge relating our non-marketable equity securities. Changes valuation non-marketable equity securities may not directly correlate with changes valuation marketable equity securities. Additionally, observable transactions lower valuations could result significant losses our non-marketable equity securities. The effect COVID- our impairment assessment requires significant judgment due the uncertainty around the duration and severity the impact. The carrying values our equity method investments, which totaled approximately $ billion and $ billion December , and , respectively, generally not fluctuate based market price changes, however these investments could impaired the carrying value exceeds the fair value and not expected recover. For further information about our equity investments, please refer Note and Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part this Annual Report Form - . Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Alphabet Inc. INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: The supplementary financial information required this Item included Item under the caption “Quarterly Results Operations.” Alphabet Inc. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Stockholders and the Board Directors Alphabet Inc. Opinion the Financial Statements have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Alphabet Inc. (the Company) December , and , the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed the Index Item (collectively referred the “consolidated financial statements”). our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company December , and , and the results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company\' internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ financial statements based our audits. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement, whether due error fraud. Our audits included performing procedures assess the risks material misstatement the financial statements, whether due error fraud, and performing procedures that respond those risks. Such procedures included examining, test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall presentation the financial statements. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below matter arising from the current period audit the financial statements that was communicated required communicated the audit committee and that: ( ) relates accounts disclosures that are material the financial statements and ( ) involved our especially challenging, subjective, complex judgments. The communication the critical audit matter does not alter any way our opinion the consolidated financial statements, taken whole, and are not, communicating the critical audit matter below, providing separate opinion the critical audit matter the accounts disclosures which relates. Alphabet Inc. Loss Contingencies Description the Matter The Company regularly subject claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated its users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using their platforms, and other matters. described Note the consolidated financial statements “Commitments and Contingencies” such claims could result adverse consequences. Significant judgment required determine both the likelihood, and the estimated amount, loss related such matters. Auditing management’ accounting for and disclosure loss contingencies from these matters involved challenging and subjective auditor judgment assessing the Company’ evaluation the probability loss, and the estimated amount range loss. How Addressed the Matter Our Audit tested relevant controls over the identified risks associated with management’ accounting for and disclosure these matters. This included controls over management’ assessment the probability incurrence loss and whether the loss range loss was reasonably estimable and the development related disclosures. Our audit procedures included gaining understanding previous rulings issued regulators and the status ongoing lawsuits, reviewing letters addressing the matters from internal and external legal counsel, meeting with internal legal counsel discuss the allegations, and obtaining representation letter from management these matters. also evaluated the Company’ disclosures relation these matters. / / Ernst & Young LLP have served the Company\' auditor since . San Jose, California February , Alphabet Inc. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Stockholders and the Board Directors Alphabet Inc. Opinion Internal Control over Financial Reporting have audited Alphabet Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the COSO criteria). our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements the Company and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion The Company’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. are public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required independent with respect the Company accordance with the . federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations the . Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the PCAOB. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations Internal Control over Financial Reporting company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California February , Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands, and par value per share amounts) December , December , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net , , Income taxes receivable, net , Inventory Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Non-marketable investments , , Deferred income taxes , Property and equipment, net , , Operating lease assets , , Intangible assets, net , , Goodwill , , Other non-current assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation and benefits , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Accrued revenue share , , Deferred revenue , , Income taxes payable, net , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Deferred revenue, non-current Income taxes payable, non-current , , Deferred income taxes , , Operating lease liabilities , , Other long-term liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and Contingencies (Note ) Stockholders’ equity: Convertible preferred stock, $ par value per share, , shares authorized; shares issued and outstanding Class and Class common stock, and Class capital stock and additional paid- capital, $ par value per share: , , shares authorized (Class , , , Class , , , Class , , ); , (Class , , Class , , Class , ) and , (Class , , Class , , Class , ) shares issued and outstanding , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) Retained earnings , , Total stockholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS INCOME ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December , Revenues $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenues , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , European Commission fines , , Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , , Other income (expense), net , , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Basic net income per share Class and common stock and Class capital stock $ $ $ Diluted net income per share Class and common stock and Class capital stock $ $ $ See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Change foreign currency translation adjustment ( ) ( ) , Available-for-sale investments: Change net unrealized gains (losses) , , Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included net income ( ) ( ) ( ) Net change, net tax benefit (expense) $ , $( ), and $( ) ( ) , Cash flow hedges: Change net unrealized gains (losses) Less: reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included net income ( ) ( ) Net change, net tax benefit (expense) $( ), $ , and $ ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) , , Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands) Class and Class Common Stock, Class Capital Stock and Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Shares Amount Balance December , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) ( ) ( ) Common and capital stock issued , Stock-based compensation expense , , Tax withholding related vesting restricted stock units ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases capital stock ( , ) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Sale interest consolidated entities Net income , , Other comprehensive income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , , , ( , ) , , Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) ( ) ( ) Common and capital stock issued , Stock-based compensation expense , , Tax withholding related vesting restricted stock units and other ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases capital stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sale interest consolidated entities Net income , , Other comprehensive income (loss) , , Balance December , , , ( , ) , , Common and capital stock issued , Stock-based compensation expense , , Tax withholding related vesting restricted stock units and other ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases capital stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sale interest consolidated entities , , Net income , , Other comprehensive income (loss) , , Balance December , , $ , $ $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Operating activities Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments: Depreciation and impairment property and equipment , , , Amortization and impairment intangible assets Stock-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income taxes , Gain debt and equity securities, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) , Changes assets and liabilities, net effects acquisitions: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Income taxes, net ( , ) ( , ) , Other assets ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Accounts payable , Accrued expenses and other liabilities , , , Accrued revenue share , , Deferred revenue Net cash provided operating activities , , , Investing activities Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities and sales marketable securities , , , Purchases non-marketable investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities and sales non-marketable investments , , Acquisitions, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible assets ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other investing activities Net cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities Net payments related stock-based award activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases capital stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance debt, net costs , , Repayments debt ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale interest consolidated entities, net , Net cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect exchange rate changes cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net increase cash and cash equivalents , , , Cash and cash equivalents beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents end period $ , $ , $ , Supplemental disclosures cash flow information Cash paid for taxes, net refunds $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note . Nature Operations and Summary Significant Accounting Policies Nature Operations Google was incorporated California September and -incorporated the State Delaware August . , implemented holding company reorganization, and result, Alphabet Inc. ("Alphabet") became the successor issuer Google. generate revenues delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising, cloud-based solutions that provide customers with platforms, collaboration tools and services, and sales other products and services, such apps and -app purchases, digital content and subscriptions for digital content, and hardware. Basis Consolidation The consolidated financial statements Alphabet include the accounts Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates Preparation consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States ("GAAP") requires make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. ongoing basis, evaluate our estimates, including those related the allowance for credit losses, fair values financial instruments (including non-marketable equity securities), intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. base our estimates assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed reasonable, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. December , the impact COVID- continues unfold and the extent the impact will depend number factors, including the duration and severity the pandemic; the uneven impact certain industries; advances testing, treatment and prevention; and the macroeconomic impact government measures contain the spread the virus and related government stimulus measures. result, certain our estimates and assumptions, including the allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, the credit worthiness customers entering into revenue arrangements, the valuation non-marketable equity securities, including our impairment assessment, and the fair values our financial instruments require increased judgment and carry higher degree variability and volatility that could result material changes our estimates future periods. January , completed assessment the useful lives our servers and network equipment and determined should adjust the estimated useful life our servers from three years four years and the estimated useful life certain network equipment from three years five years . This change accounting estimate will effective beginning fiscal year . Revenue Recognition Revenues are recognized when control the promised goods services transferred our customers and the collectibility amount that expect exchange for those goods services probable. Sales and other similar taxes are excluded from revenues. Advertising Revenues generate advertising revenues primarily delivering advertising Google Search & other properties, including Google com, the Google Search app, Google Play, Gmail and Google Maps; YouTube, and Google Network Members’ properties. Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Manager and Google Marketing Platform, among others. offer advertising delivering both performance and brand advertising. recognize revenues for performance advertising when user engages with the advertisement, such click, view, purchase. For brand advertising, recognize revenues when the displayed user views the . For ads placed Google Network Members’ properties, evaluate whether are the principal ( ., report revenues gross basis) agent ( ., report revenues net basis). Generally, report advertising revenues Alphabet Inc. for ads placed Google Network Members’ properties gross basis, that , the amounts billed our customers are recorded revenues, and amounts paid Google Network Members are recorded cost revenues. Where are the principal, control the advertising inventory before transferred our customers. Our control evidenced our sole ability monetize the advertising inventory before transferred our customers, and further supported being primarily responsible our customers and having level discretion establishing pricing. Google Cloud Revenues Google Cloud revenues consist primarily fees received for Google Cloud Platform services (which includes infrastructure and data analytics platform products and other services) and Google Workspace (formerly Suite) collaboration tools and other enterprise services. Our cloud services are generally provided either consumption subscription basis. Revenues related cloud services provided consumption basis are recognized when the customer utilizes the services, based the quantity services consumed. Revenues related cloud services provided subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract term the customer receives and consumes the benefits the cloud services. Other Revenues Google other revenues and Other Bets revenues consist primarily revenues from: • Google Play, which includes revenues from sale apps and -app purchases (which recognize net payout developers) and digital content sold the Google Play store; • hardware, including Google Nest home products, Pixelbooks, Pixel phones and other devices; • YouTube non-advertising services including, YouTube premium and YouTube subscriptions and other services; and • other products and services. relates Google other revenues, the most significant judgment determining whether are the principal agent for app sales and -app purchases through the Google Play store. report revenues from these transactions net basis because our performance obligation facilitate transaction between app developers and end users, for which earn commission. Consequently, the portion the gross amount billed end users that remitted app developers not reflected revenues. Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, allocate revenues each performance obligation based its relative standalone selling price. generally determine standalone selling prices based the prices charged customers using expected cost plus margin. Customer Incentives and Credits Certain customers receive cash-based incentives credits, which are accounted for variable consideration. estimate these amounts based the expected amount provided customers and reduce revenues. believe that there will not significant changes our estimates variable consideration. Sales Commissions expense sales commissions when incurred when the amortization period one year less. recognize asset for certain sales commissions expect the period benefit these costs exceed one year and amortize over the period expected benefit. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses. Cost Revenues Cost revenues consists TAC and other costs revenues. TAC represents the amounts paid our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services and amounts paid Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed their properties. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. Other cost revenues (which the cost revenues excluding TAC) includes the following: • Content acquisition costs primarily related payments content providers from whom license video and other content for distribution YouTube advertising and subscription services and Google Play. pay fees these content providers based revenues generated flat fee; Alphabet Inc. • Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expense (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and • Inventory related costs for hardware sell. Software Development Costs expense software development costs, including costs develop software products the software component products sold, leased, marketed external users, before technological feasibility reached. Technological feasibility typically reached shortly before the release such products and result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented. Software development costs also include costs develop software used solely meet internal needs and cloud based applications used deliver our services. capitalize development costs related these software applications once the preliminary project stage complete and probable that the project will completed and the software will used perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation primarily consists Alphabet restricted stock units ("RSUs"). RSUs are equity classified and measured the fair market value the underlying stock the grant date. recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures they occur. For RSUs, shares are issued the vesting dates net the applicable statutory tax withholding paid behalf our employees. result, fewer shares are issued than the number RSUs outstanding and the tax withholding recorded reduction additional paid- capital. Additionally, stock-based compensation also includes other stock-based awards, such performance stock units ("PSUs") and awards that may settled cash the stock certain Other Bets. PSUs and certain Other Bet awards are equity classified and expense recognized over the requisite service period. Certain Other Bet awards are liability classified and remeasured fair value through settlement. The fair value Other Bet awards based the equity valuation the respective Other Bet. Advertising and Promotional Expenses expense advertising and promotional costs the period which they are incurred. For the years ended December , , and , advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. Performance Fees Performance fees refer compensation arrangements with payouts based realized investment returns. recognize compensation expense based the estimated payouts, which may result expense recognized before investment returns are realized. Performance fees, which are primarily related gains equity securities, are recorded component other income (expense), net. Certain Risks and Concentrations Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which highly competitive and rapidly changing. addition, our revenues are generated from multitude markets countries around the world. Significant changes this industry changes customer buying advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results. individual customer groups affiliated customers represented more than % our revenues , , . , , and , generated approximately %, %, and % our revenues, respectively, from customers based the . are subject concentrations credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. manage our credit risk exposure through timely assessment our counterparty creditworthiness, credit limits and use collateral management. Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments the . government and its agencies, debt instruments issued foreign governments, debt instruments issued municipalities the ., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from Alphabet Inc. customers located around the world. perform ongoing evaluations determine customer credit and limit the amount credit extend. generally not require collateral from our customers. Fair Value Financial Instruments Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured fair value recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets measured fair value nonrecurring basis include non-marketable equity securities, which are adjusted fair value when observable price changes are identified when the non-marketable equity securities are impaired (referred the measurement alternative) . Other financial assets and liabilities are carried cost with fair value disclosed, required. Fair value exit price, representing the amount that would received sell asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants. such, fair value market-based measurement that determined based assumptions that market participants would use pricing asset liability. Assets and liabilities recorded fair value are measured and classified accordance with three-tier fair value hierarchy based the observability the inputs available the market used measure fair value: Level - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets liabilities active markets. Level - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable the market can derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings. Level - Unobservable inputs that are supported little market activities. The fair value hierarchy requires entity maximize the use observable inputs and minimize the use unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities invest all excess cash primarily government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, time deposits, and money market funds. classify all marketable debt securities that have stated maturities three months less from the date purchase cash equivalents and those with stated maturities greater than three months marketable securities our Consolidated Balance Sheets. determine the appropriate classification our investments marketable debt securities the time purchase and reevaluate such designation each balance sheet date. have classified and accounted for our marketable debt securities available-for-sale. After consideration our risk versus reward objectives, well our liquidity requirements, may sell these debt securities prior their stated maturities. view these securities available support current operations, classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond months current assets under the caption marketable securities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. carry these securities fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, component stockholders’ equity, except for the changes allowance for expected credit losses, which are recorded other income (expense), net. For certain marketable debt securities have elected the fair value option, for which changes fair value are recorded other income (expense), net. determine any realized gains losses the sale marketable debt securities specific identification method, and record such gains and losses component other income (expense), net. Our investments marketable equity securities are measured fair value with the related gains and losses, realized and unrealized, recognized other income (expense), net. Accounts Receivable Our payment terms for accounts receivable vary the type and location our customer and the products services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment due not significant. For certain products services and customers, require payment before the products services are delivered the customer. Alphabet Inc. maintain allowance for credit losses for accounts receivable, which recorded offset accounts receivable and changes such are classified general and administrative expense the Consolidated Statements Income. assess collectibility reviewing accounts receivable collective basis where similar characteristics exist and individual basis when identify specific customers with known disputes collectibility issues. determining the amount the allowance for credit losses, consider historical collectibility based past due status and make judgments about the creditworthiness customers based ongoing credit evaluations. also consider customer-specific information, current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts future economic conditions inform adjustments historical loss data. For the year ended December , , our assessment considered the impact COVID- and estimates expected credit and collectibility trends. Volatility market conditions and evolving credit trends are difficult predict and may cause variability and volatility that may have material impact our allowance for credit losses future periods. The allowance for credit losses accounts receivable was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Inventory Inventory consists primarily finished goods and stated the lower cost and net realizable value. Cost computed using the first- , first-out method. Non-Marketable Investments account for non-marketable equity investments through which exercise significant influence but not have control over the investee under the equity method. Our non-marketable equity securities not accounted for under the equity method are primarily accounted for under the measurement alternative. Under the measurement alternative, the carrying value our non-marketable equity investments adjusted fair value for observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer impairment. Adjustments are determined primarily based market approach the transaction date and are recorded component other income (expense), net. Non-marketable debt investments are classified available-for-sale securities. Non-marketable investments that not have stated contractual maturity dates are classified non-current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Impairment Investments periodically review our debt and non-marketable equity investments for impairment. For debt securities unrealized loss position, determine whether credit loss exists. The credit loss estimated considering available information relevant the collectibility the security and information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Any credit loss recorded charge other income (expense), net, not exceed the amount the unrealized loss. Unrealized losses other than the credit loss are recognized accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"). have intent sell, more likely than not that will required sell debt security unrealized loss position before recovery its amortized cost basis, will write down the security its fair value and record the corresponding charge component other income (expense), net. For non-marketable equity securities consider whether impairment indicators exist evaluating the companies\' financial and liquidity position, access capital resources and the time since the last adjustment fair value, among others. the assessment indicates that the investment impaired, write down the investment its fair value recording the corresponding charge component other income (expense), net. Fair value estimated using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections other available market data. Variable Interest Entities determine the inception each arrangement whether entity which have made investment which have other variable interests considered variable interest entity ("VIE"). consolidate VIEs when are the primary beneficiary. are the primary beneficiary VIE when have the power direct activities that most significantly affect the economic performance the VIE and have the obligation absorb the majority their losses benefits. are not the primary beneficiary VIE, account for the investment other variable interests VIE accordance with applicable GAAP. Periodically, assess whether any changes our interest relationship with the entity affect our determination whether the entity VIE and, , whether are the primary beneficiary. Alphabet Inc. Property and Equipment Property and equipment includes the following categories: land and buildings, information technology assets, construction progress, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Land and buildings include land, offices, data centers and related building improvements. Information technology assets include servers and network equipment. account for property and equipment cost less accumulated depreciation. compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which regularly evaluate. depreciate buildings over periods seven years. depreciate information technology assets generally over periods three five years (specifically, three years for servers and three five years for network equipment). depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter the remaining lease term the estimated useful lives the assets. Construction progress the construction development property and equipment that have not yet been placed service for our intended use. Depreciation for equipment, buildings, and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land not depreciated. Leases determine arrangement lease inception. Our lease agreements generally contain lease and non-lease components. Payments under our lease arrangements are primarily fixed. Non-lease components primarily include payments for maintenance and utilities. combine fixed payments for non-lease components with lease payments and account for them together single lease component which increases the amount our lease assets and liabilities. Certain lease agreements contain variable payments, which are expensed incurred and not included the lease assets and liabilities. These amounts include payments affected the Consumer Price Index, payments contingent wind solar production for power purchase arrangements, and payments for maintenance and utilities. Lease assets and liabilities are recognized the present value the future lease payments the lease commencement date. The interest rate used determine the present value the future lease payments our incremental borrowing rate, because the interest rate implicit our leases not readily determinable. Our incremental borrowing rate estimated approximate the interest rate collateralized basis with similar terms and payments, and economic environments where the leased asset located. Our lease terms include periods under options extend terminate the lease when reasonably certain that will exercise that option. generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when determining the lease assets and liabilities. Lease assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives. Operating lease assets and liabilities are included our Consolidated Balance Sheet beginning January , . The current portion our operating lease liabilities included accrued expenses and other current liabilities and the long term portion included operating lease liabilities. Finance lease assets are included property and equipment, net. Finance lease liabilities are included accrued expenses and other current liabilities long-term debt. Operating lease expense (excluding variable lease costs) recognized straight-line basis over the lease term. Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not recoverable. measure recoverability these assets comparing the carrying amounts the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets the asset group are expected generate. the carrying value the assets asset group are not recoverable, the impairment recognized measured the amount which the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Impairments were not material for the periods presented. allocate goodwill reporting units based the expected benefit from the business combination. evaluate our reporting units periodically, well when changes our operating segments occur. For changes reporting units, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. test our goodwill for impairment least annually, more frequently events changes circumstances indicate that the asset may impaired. Goodwill impairments were material for the periods presented. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. amortize intangible assets straight-line basis with definite lives generally over periods ranging from one twelve years . Alphabet Inc. Income Taxes account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based provisions enacted tax law. evaluate the realization our deferred tax assets based all available evidence and establish valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets when more likely than not that they will not realized. recognize the financial statement effects tax position when more likely than not that, based technical merits, the position will sustained upon examination. The tax benefits the position recognized the financial statements are then measured based the largest amount benefit that greater than % likely realized upon settlement with taxing authority. addition, recognize interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits component the income tax provision. Business Combinations include the results operations the businesses that acquire the acquisition date. allocate the purchase price the acquisitions the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based their estimated fair values. The excess the purchase price over the fair values identifiable assets and liabilities recorded goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed incurred. Foreign Currency Generally, the functional currency our international subsidiaries the local currency. translate the financial statements these subsidiaries . dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. record translation gains and losses accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) component stockholders’ equity. reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion the transaction currency functional currency component foreign currency exchange gain (loss) other income (expense), net. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update . - ("ASU - ") "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic ): Measurement Credit Losses Financial Instruments", which requires the measurement and recognition expected credit losses for financial assets held amortized cost. ASU - replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with expected loss model which requires the use forward-looking information calculate credit loss estimates. also eliminates the concept other-than-temporary impairment and requires credit losses related certain available-for-sale debt securities recorded through allowance for credit losses rather than reduction the amortized cost basis the securities. These changes result earlier recognition credit losses. adopted ASU - using the modified retrospective approach January , . The cumulative effect upon adoption was not material our consolidated financial statements. See “Impairment Investments” and "Accounts Receivable" above well Note for the effect our consolidated financial statements. Prior Period Reclassifications Certain amounts prior periods have been reclassified conform with current period presentation. See Note for further details. Alphabet Inc. Note . Revenues Revenue Recognition The following table presents our revenues disaggregated type ( millions). Year Ended December , Google Search & other $ , $ , $ , YouTube ads , , , Google Network Members\' properties , , , Google advertising , , , Google other , , , Google Services total , , , Google Cloud , , , Other Bets Hedging gains (losses) ( ) Total revenues $ , $ , $ , The following table presents our revenues disaggregated geography, based the addresses our customers ( millions): Year Ended December , United States $ , % $ , % $ , % EMEA ( ) , , , APAC ( ) , , , Other Americas ( ) , , , Hedging gains (losses) ( ) Total revenues $ , % $ , % $ , % ( ) Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); Asia-Pacific ("APAC"); and Canada and Latin America ("Other Americas"). Deferred Revenues and Remaining Performance Obligations record deferred revenues when cash payments are received due advance our performance, including amounts which are refundable. Deferred revenues primarily relate Google Cloud and Google other. Our total deferred revenue December , was $ billion, which $ billion was recognized revenues for the year ending December , . Additionally, have performance obligations associated with commitments customer contracts, primarily related Google Cloud, for future services that have not yet been recognized revenues, also referred remaining performance obligations. Remaining performance obligations include related deferred revenue currently recorded well amounts that will invoiced future periods, and excludes ( ) contracts with original expected term one year less, ( ) cancellable contracts, and (iii) contracts for which recognize revenue the amount which have the right invoice for services performed. December , , the amount not yet recognized revenues from these commitments $ billion. expect recognize approximately half over the next months with the remaining thereafter. However, the amount and timing revenue recognition largely driven when the customer utilizes the services and our ability deliver accordance with relevant contract terms, which could impact our estimate the remaining performance obligations and when expect recognize such revenues. Alphabet Inc. Note . Financial Instruments Debt Securities classify our marketable debt securities, which are accounted for available-for-sale, within Level the fair value hierarchy because use quoted market prices the extent available alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs determine fair value. For certain marketable debt securities, have elected the fair value option for which changes fair value are recorded other income (expense), net. The fair value option was elected for these securities align with the unrealized gains and losses from related derivative contracts. Unrealized net gains related debt securities still held where have elected the fair value option were $ million December , . December , , the fair value these debt securities was $ billion. Balances December , were not material. The following tables summarize our debt securities, for which did not elect the fair value option, significant investment categories December , and ( millions): December , Adjusted Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Marketable Securities Level : Time deposits ( ) $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ Government bonds , ( ) , , , Corporate debt securities , ( ) , , Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities , ( ) , , Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , December , Adjusted Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Marketable Securities Level : Time deposits ( ) $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ Government bonds , ( ) , , , Corporate debt securities , ( ) , , Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities , ( ) , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) The majority our time deposits are domestic deposits. determine realized gains losses the sale extinguishment debt securities specific identification method. recognized gross realized gains $ billion, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. recognized gross realized losses $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. reflect these gains and losses component other income (expense), net. The following table summarizes the estimated fair value our investments marketable debt securities stated contractual maturity dates ( millions): December , Due year less $ , Due year through years , Due years through years , Due after years , Total $ , Alphabet Inc. The following tables present fair values and gross unrealized losses recorded AOCI December , and , aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): December , Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Government bonds $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Corporate debt securities , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) December , Less than Months Months Greater Total Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Government bonds $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ , $ ( ) Corporate debt securities , ( ) , ( ) Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) During the years ended December , , and did recognize any significant other-than-temporary impairment losses. During the year ended December , , with the adoption ASU - , did not recognize significant credit losses and the ending allowance for credit losses was immaterial. See Note for further details other income (expense), net. Equity Investments The following discusses our marketable equity securities, non-marketable equity securities, gains and losses marketable and non-marketable equity securities, well our equity securities accounted for under the equity method. Our marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks funds measured fair value and classified within Level and the fair value hierarchy because use quoted prices for identical assets active markets inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets. Our non-marketable equity securities are investments privately held companies without readily determinable market values. The carrying value our non-marketable equity securities adjusted fair value for observable transactions for identical similar investments the same issuer impairment (referred the measurement alternative). Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured during the period based observable transactions are classified within Level Level the fair value hierarchy because estimate the value based valuation methods which may include combination the observable transaction price the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations the securities hold. The fair value non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured due impairment are classified within Level . Gains and losses marketable and non-marketable equity securities Gains and losses reflected other income (expense), net, for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below ( millions): Year Ended December , Net gain (loss) equity securities sold during the period $ ( ) $ , Net unrealized gain (loss) equity securities held the end the period , , Total gain (loss) recognized other income (expense), net $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. the table above, net gain (loss) equity securities sold during the period reflects the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value the equity securities the beginning the period the purchase date, later. Cumulative net gains (losses) equity securities sold during the period, which summarized the following table ( millions), represents the total net gains (losses) recognized after the initial purchase date the equity security. While these net gains may have been reflected periods prior the period sale, believe they are important supplemental information they reflect the economic realized net gains the securities sold during the period. Cumulative net gains are calculated the difference between the sale price and the initial purchase price for the equity security sold during the period. Equity Securities Sold During the Year Ended December , Total sale price $ , $ , Total initial cost , Cumulative net gains (losses) $ , $ , Carrying value marketable and non-marketable equity securities The carrying value measured the total initial cost plus the cumulative net gain (loss). The carrying values for our marketable and non-marketable equity securities are summarized below ( millions): December , Marketable Equity Securities Non-Marketable Equity Securities Total Total initial cost $ , $ , $ , Cumulative net gain (loss) ( ) , , , Carrying value $ , $ , $ , ( ) Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) comprised $ billion unrealized gains and $ million unrealized losses (including impairment). December , Marketable Equity Securities Non-Marketable Equity Securities Total Total initial cost $ , $ , $ , Cumulative net gain (loss) ( ) , , , Carrying value ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Non-marketable equity securities cumulative net gain (loss) comprised $ billion unrealized gains and $ billion unrealized losses (including impairment). ( ) The long-term portion marketable equity securities $ million included other non-current assets. Alphabet Inc. Marketable equity securities The following table summarizes marketable equity securities measured fair value significant investment categories December , and ( millions): December , December , Cash and Cash Equivalents Marketable Equity Securities Cash and Cash Equivalents Marketable Equity Securities Level : Money market funds $ , $ $ , $ Marketable equity securities ( )( ) , , , , , , Level : Mutual funds Total $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) The balance December , and includes investments that were reclassified from non-marketable equity securities following the commencement public market trading the issuers acquisition public entities. December , certain investments are subject short-term lock- restrictions. ( ) December , the long-term portion marketable equity securities $ million included within other non-current assets. Non-marketable equity securities The following summary unrealized gains and losses recorded other income (expense), net, and included adjustments the carrying value non-marketable equity securities ( millions): Year Ended December , Unrealized gains $ , $ , Unrealized losses (including impairment) ( ) ( , ) Total unrealized gain (loss) for non-marketable equity securities $ , $ , During the year ended December , , included the $ billion non-marketable equity securities, $ billion were measured fair value resulting net unrealized gain $ billion. Equity securities accounted for under the Equity Method December , and , equity securities accounted for under the equity method had carrying value approximately $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Our share gains and losses including impairment are included component other income (expense), net, the Consolidated Statements Income. See Note for further details other income (expense), net. Derivative Financial Instruments enter into derivative instruments manage risks relating our ongoing business operations. The primary risk managed with derivative instruments foreign exchange risk. use foreign currency contracts reduce the risk that our cash flows, earnings, and investment foreign subsidiaries will adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. also enter into derivative instruments partially offset our exposure other risks and enhance investment returns. recognize derivative instruments either assets liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value and classify the derivatives primarily within Level the fair value hierarchy. present our collar contracts ( option strategy comprised combination purchased and written options) net fair values where both the purchased and written options are with the same counterparty. For other derivative contracts, present gross fair values. primarily record changes the fair value the Consolidated Statements Income either other income (expense), net, revenues, the Consolidated Balance Sheets AOCI, discussed below. enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. Further, enter into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received pledged when the net fair value certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. Cash collateral received related derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included other current assets with corresponding liability. Cash and non-cash Alphabet Inc. collateral pledged related derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements are included other current assets. Cash Flow Hedges designate foreign currency forward and option contracts (including collars) cash flow hedges hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated currencies other than the . dollar. These contracts have maturities months less. Cash flow hedge amounts included the assessment hedge effectiveness are deferred AOCI and subsequently reclassified revenue when the hedged item recognized earnings. exclude the change forward points and time value from our assessment hedge effectiveness. The initial value the excluded component amortized straight-line basis over the life the hedging instrument and recognized revenues. The difference between fair value changes the excluded component and the amount amortized revenues recorded AOCI. the hedged transactions become probable not occurring, the corresponding amounts AOCI are reclassified other income (expense), net the period -designation. December , , the net accumulated loss our foreign currency cash flow hedges before tax effect was $ million, which expected reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next months. Fair Value Hedges designate foreign currency forward contracts fair value hedges hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated currencies other than the . dollar. Fair value hedge amounts included the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses the related hedged items. exclude changes forward points from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognize changes the excluded component other income (expense), net. Net Investment Hedges designate foreign currency forward contracts net investment hedges hedge the foreign currency risks related our investment foreign subsidiaries. Net investment hedge amounts included the assessment hedge effectiveness are recognized AOCI along with the foreign currency translation adjustment. exclude changes forward points from the assessment hedge effectiveness and recognize changes the excluded component other income (expense), net. Other Derivatives Other derivatives not designated hedging instruments consist primarily foreign currency forward contracts that use hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets liabilities denominated currencies other than the functional currency subsidiary. Gains and losses these contracts, well the related costs, are recognized other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses monetary assets and liabilities. also use derivatives not designated hedging instruments manage risks relating interest rates, equity and commodity prices, credit exposures and enhance investment returns. The gross notional amounts our outstanding derivative instruments were follows ( millions): December , December , Derivatives Designated Hedging Instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Cash flow hedges $ , $ , Fair value hedges $ $ , Net investment hedges $ , $ , Derivatives Not Designated Hedging Instruments: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , Other contracts $ $ , Alphabet Inc. The fair values our outstanding derivative instruments were follows ( millions): December , Balance Sheet Location Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedging Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedging Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative Assets: Level : Foreign exchange contracts Other current and non-current assets $ $ $ Other contracts Other current and non-current assets Total $ $ $ Derivative Liabilities: Level : Foreign exchange contracts Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current $ $ $ Other contracts Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current Total $ $ $ December , Balance Sheet Location Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedging Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedging Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative Assets: Level : Foreign exchange contracts Other current and non-current assets $ $ $ Other contracts Other current and non-current assets Total $ $ $ Derivative Liabilities: Level : Foreign exchange contracts Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current $ $ $ Other contracts Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current Total $ $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. The gains (losses) derivatives cash flow hedging and net investment hedging relationships recognized other comprehensive income ("OCI") are summarized below ( millions): Gains (Losses) Recognized OCI Derivatives Before Tax Effect Year Ended December , Derivatives Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: Foreign exchange contracts Amount included the assessment effectiveness $ $ $ Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness ( ) ( ) Derivatives Net Investment Hedging Relationship: Foreign exchange contracts Amount included the assessment effectiveness ( ) Total $ $ $ ( ) Alphabet Inc. The effect derivative instruments income summarized below ( millions): Gains (Losses) Recognized Income Year Ended December , Revenues Other income (expense), net Revenues Other income (expense), net Revenues Other income (expense), net Total amounts presented the Consolidated Statements Income which the effects cash flow and fair value hedges are recorded $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gains (Losses) Derivatives Cash Flow Hedging Relationship: Foreign exchange contracts Amount gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI income $ ( ) $ $ $ $ $ Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness recognized earnings based amortization approach Gains (Losses) Derivatives Fair Value Hedging Relationship: Foreign exchange contracts Hedged items ( ) ( ) Derivatives designated hedging instruments ( ) Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness Gains (Losses) Derivatives Net Investment Hedging Relationship: Foreign exchange contracts Amount excluded from the assessment effectiveness Gains (Losses) Derivatives Not Designated Hedging Instruments: Foreign exchange contracts ( ) Other Contracts ( ) Total gains (losses) $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Offsetting Derivatives The gross amounts our derivative instruments subject master netting arrangements with various counterparties, and cash and non-cash collateral received and pledged under such agreements were follows ( millions): Alphabet Inc. Offsetting Assets December , Gross Amounts Not Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights Offset Gross Amounts Recognized Assets Gross Amounts Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets Net Presented the Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Instruments Cash Collateral Received Non-Cash Collateral Received Net Assets Exposed Derivatives $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) ( ) $ ( ) $ $ December , Gross Amounts Not Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights Offset Gross Amounts Recognized Assets Gross Amounts Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets Net Presented the Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Instruments Cash Collateral Received Non-Cash Collateral Received Net Assets Exposed Derivatives $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) The balances December , and were related derivative liabilities which are allowed net settled against derivative assets accordance with our master netting agreements. Offsetting Liabilities December , Gross Amounts Not Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights Offset Gross Amounts Recognized Liabilities Gross Amounts Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets Net Presented the Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Instruments Cash Collateral Pledged Non-Cash Collateral Pledged Net Liabilities Derivatives $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) ( ) $ $ $ December , Gross Amounts Not Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights Offset Gross Amounts Recognized Liabilities Gross Amounts Offset the Consolidated Balance Sheets Net Presented the Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Instruments Cash Collateral Pledged Non-Cash Collateral Pledged Net Liabilities Derivatives $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) The balances December , and were related derivative assets which are allowed net settled against derivative liabilities accordance with our master netting agreements. Note . Leases have entered into operating and finance lease agreements primarily for data centers, land and offices throughout the world with lease periods expiring between and . Components operating lease expense were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Operating lease cost $ , $ , Variable lease cost Total operating lease cost $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. Supplemental information related operating leases follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cash payments for operating leases $ , $ , New operating lease assets obtained exchange for operating lease liabilities $ , $ , December , , our operating leases had weighted average remaining lease term years and weighted average discount rate %. Future lease payments under operating leases December , were follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total future lease payments , Less imputed interest ( , ) Total lease liability balance $ , December , , have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments $ billion, excluding purchase options, that are not yet recorded our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between and with non-cancelable lease terms years. Note . Variable Interest Entities Consolidated VIEs consolidate VIEs which hold variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results operations and financial position these VIEs are included our consolidated financial statements. For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available and their creditors not have recourse . December , and , assets that can only used settle obligations these VIEs were $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors only have recourse the VIEs were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Total noncontrolling interests ("NCI"), including redeemable noncontrolling interests ("RNCI"), our consolidated subsidiaries increased from $ billion $ billion rom December , December , , primarily due external investments Waymo. NCI and RNCI are included within additional paid- capital. Net loss attributable noncontrolling interests was not material for any period presented and included within other income (expense), net. Waymo Waymo autonomous driving technology development company with mission make safe and easy for people and things get where they\' going. the first half , Waymo completed externally led investment round raising total $ billion, which includes investment from Alphabet. gain loss was recognized. The investments related external parties were accounted for equity transactions and resulted recognition noncontrolling interests. Unconsolidated VIEs have investments some VIEs which are not the primary beneficiary. These VIEs include private companies that are primarily early stage companies and certain renewable energy entities which activities involve power generation using renewable sources. have determined that the governance structures these entities not allow direct the activities that would significantly affect their economic performance. Therefore, are not the primary beneficiary, and the results operations and financial position these VIEs are not included our consolidated financial statements. account for these investments non-marketable equity investments equity method investments. Alphabet Inc. VIEs are generally based the current carrying value the investments and any future funding commitments. have determined that the single source our exposure these VIEs our capital investments them. The carrying value and maximum exposure these unconsolidated VIEs were not material December , and . Note . Debt Short-Term Debt have debt financing program $ billion through the issuance commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. had commercial paper outstanding December , and . Our short-term debt balance also includes the current portion certain long-term debt. Long-Term Debt August , Alphabet issued $ billion fixed-rate senior unsecured notes six tranches (collectively, “ Notes”): $ billion due , $ billion due , $ billion due , $ billion due , $ billion due and $ billion due . The Notes had weighted average duration years and weighted average coupon rate %. the total issuance, $ billion was designated Sustainability Bonds, the net proceeds which are used fund environmentally and socially responsible projects the following eight areas: energy efficiency, clean energy, green buildings, clean transportation, circular economy and design, affordable housing, commitment racial equity, and support for small businesses and COVID- crisis response. The remaining net proceeds are used for general corporate purposes. The total outstanding debt summarized below ( millions, except percentages): Maturity Coupon Rate Effective Interest Rate December , December , Debt - Notes Issuances - % - % % - % $ , $ , Notes Issuance - % - % % - % , Future finance lease payments, net ( ) , Total debt , , Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs ( ) ( ) Less: Current portion Notes ( ) ( ) Less: Current portion future finance lease payments, net ( )( ) ( ) ( ) Total long-term debt $ , $ , ( ) Net imputed interest. ( ) Total current portion long-term debt included within other accrued expenses and current liabilities. See Note . The notes the table above are comprised fixed-rate senior unsecured obligations and generally rank equally with each other. may redeem the notes any time whole part specified redemption prices. The effective interest rates are based proceeds received with interest payable semi-annually. The total estimated fair value the outstanding notes, including the current portion, was approximately $ billion and $ billion December , and December , , respectively. The fair value was determined based observable market prices identical instruments less active markets and categorized accordingly Level the fair value hierarchy. Alphabet Inc. December , , the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt, including finance lease liabilities, for each the next five years and thereafter are follows ( millions): $ , , , Thereafter , Total $ , Credit Facility December , , have $ billion revolving credit facilities which expire July . The interest rate for the credit facilities determined based formula using certain market rates. amounts were outstanding under the credit facilities December , and . Note . Supplemental Financial Statement Information Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment, net, consisted the following ( millions): December , December , Land and buildings $ , $ , Information technology assets , , Construction progress , , Leasehold improvements , , Furniture and fixtures Property and equipment, gross , , Less: accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted the following ( millions): December , December , European Commission fines ( ) $ , $ , Accrued customer liabilities , , Accrued purchases property and equipment , , Current operating lease liabilities , , Other accrued expenses and current liabilities , , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ , $ , ( ) Includes the effects foreign exchange and interest. See Note for further details. Alphabet Inc. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The components AOCI, net tax, were follows ( millions): Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments Unrealized Gains (Losses) Available-for-Sale Investments Unrealized Gains (Losses) Cash Flow Hedges Total Balance December , $ ( , ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications ( ) ( ) Amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness recorded AOCI Amounts reclassified from AOCI ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Cumulative effect accounting change ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications ( ) , , Amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness recorded AOCI ( ) ( ) Amounts reclassified from AOCI ( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) , ( ) , Balance December , ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications , , , Amounts excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness recorded AOCI ( ) ( ) Amounts reclassified from AOCI ( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( ) , Balance December , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ The effects net income amounts reclassified from AOCI were follows ( millions): Gains (Losses) Reclassified from AOCI the Consolidated Statements Income Year Ended December , AOCI Components Location Unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale investments Other income (expense), net $ , $ $ Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Net tax Unrealized gains (losses) cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts Revenue ( ) Interest rate contracts Other income (expense), net Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( ) ( ) Net tax ( ) Total amount reclassified, net tax $ $ $ Alphabet Inc. Other Income (Expense), Net The components other income (expense), net, were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Interest income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Gain (loss) debt securities, net ( ) , Gain (loss) equity securities, net , , , Performance fees ( , ) ( ) ( ) Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net $ , $ , $ , ( ) Interest expense net interest capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. ( ) Our foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net, primarily related the forward points for our foreign currency hedging contracts and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion the transaction currency the functional currency, offset the foreign currency hedging contracts\' losses and gains. ( ) During the year ended December , , the terms non-marketable debt security were modified resulting unrealized $ billion gain. ( ) During the year ended December , , entered into derivatives that hedged the changes fair value certain marketable equity securities, which resulted $ million loss. The offsetting recognized gains the marketable equity securities are reflected Gain (loss) equity securities, net. Note . Acquisitions Acquisitions During the year ended December , , completed acquisitions and purchases intangible assets for total consideration approximately $ million, net cash acquired. aggregate, $ million was attributed intangible assets, $ million goodwill and $ million net assets acquired. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth our offerings and expand our expertise engineering and other functional areas. Pro forma results operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material the consolidated results operations, either individually the aggregate. For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended December , , patents and developed technology have weighted-average useful life years, customer relationships have weighted-average useful life years, and trade names and other have weighted-average useful life years. Acquisition Fitbit January , closed the acquisition Fitbit, leading wearables brand for $ billion. Alphabet Inc. Note . Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill Changes the carrying amount goodwill for the years ended December , and were follows ( millions): Google Google Services Google Cloud Other Bets Total Balance December , $ , $ $ $ $ , Acquisitions , , Transfers ( ) Foreign currency translation and other adjustments ( ) ( ) Balance December , , , Acquisitions Foreign currency translation and other adjustments ( ) Allocation the fourth quarter ( ) ( , ) , , Acquisitions Foreign currency translation and other adjustments Balance December , $ $ , $ , $ $ , ( ) Represents reallocation goodwill result our change segments the fourth quarter . See Note for further details Other Intangible Assets Information regarding purchased intangible assets were follows ( millions): December , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Patents and developed technology $ , $ , $ , Customer relationships Trade names and other Total $ , $ , $ , December , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Value Patents and developed technology $ , $ , $ Customer relationships Trade names and other Total $ , $ , $ , Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives years, years, and years, respectively. Amortization expense relating purchased intangible assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Alphabet Inc. December , , expected amortization expense relating purchased intangible assets for each the next five years and thereafter follows ( millions): $ Thereafter $ , Note . Commitments and Contingencies Purchase Obligations December , , had $ billion other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related data center operations and build-outs, digital media content licensing, information technology assets and purchases inventory. Indemnifications the normal course business, facilitate transactions our services and products, indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, customers Google Cloud offerings, and lessors with respect certain matters. have agreed hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from breach representations covenants, out intellectual property infringement other claims made against certain parties. Several these agreements limit the time within which indemnification claim can made and the amount the claim. addition, have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations our agents. not possible make reasonable estimate the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due the unique facts and circumstances involved each particular agreement. Additionally, have limited history prior indemnification claims and the payments have made under such agreements have not had material adverse effect our results operations, cash flows, financial position. However, the extent that valid indemnification claims arise the future, future payments could significant and could have material adverse effect our results operations cash flows particular period. December , , did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable reasonably possible. Legal Matters Antitrust Investigations November , , the \' Directorate General for Competition opened investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against . June , , the announced its decision that certain actions taken Google regarding its display and ranking shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The decision imposed € billion ($ billion June , ) fine. September , , appealed the decision and September , , implemented product changes bring shopping ads into compliance with the \' decision. recognized charge $ billion for the fine the second quarter . July , , the announced its decision that certain provisions Google’ Android-related distribution agreements infringed European competition law. The decision imposed € billion ($ billion June , ) fine and directed the termination the conduct issue. October , , appealed the decision. October , , implemented changes certain our Android distribution practices. recognized charge $ billion for the fine the second quarter . March , , the announced its decision that certain contractual provisions agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law. The decision imposed fine € billion ($ billion March , ) and directed actions related AdSense for Search partners\' agreements, which implemented prior the decision. June , , appealed the decision. recognized charge $ billion for the fine the first quarter . Alphabet Inc. While each decision under appeal, included the fines accrued expenses and other current liabilities our Consolidated Balance Sheets provided bank guarantees ( lieu cash payment) for the fines. From time time are subject formal and informal inquiries and investigations competition matters regulatory authorities the United States, Europe, and other jurisdictions. For example, August , began receiving civil investigative demands from the . Department Justice ("DOJ") requesting information and documents relating our prior antitrust investigations and certain aspects our business. The DOJ and number state Attorneys General filed lawsuit October , alleging that Google violated . antitrust laws relating Search and Search advertising. Separately, December , , number state Attorneys General filed antitrust complaint against Google the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, alleging that Google violated . antitrust laws well state deceptive trade laws relating its advertising technology. believe these complaints are without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously. The DOJ and state Attorneys General continue their investigations into certain aspects our business. continue cooperate with federal and state regulators the United States, and other regulators around the world. Patent and Intellectual Property Claims have had patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against claiming that certain our products, services, and technologies infringe others\' intellectual property rights. Adverse results these lawsuits may include awards substantial monetary damages, costly royalty licensing agreements, orders preventing from offering certain features, functionalities, products, services. result, may have change our business practices, and develop non-infringing products technologies, which could result loss revenues for and otherwise harm our business. addition, the . International Trade Commission ("ITC") has increasingly become important forum litigate intellectual property disputes because ultimate loss ITC action can result prohibition importing infringing products into the . Because the . important market, prohibition importation could have adverse effect , including preventing from importing many important products into the . necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features our products. Furthermore, many our agreements with our customers and partners require indemnify them against certain intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs result defending such claims, and may require that pay significant damages there were adverse ruling any such claims. addition, our customers and partners may discontinue the use our products, services, and technologies, result injunctions otherwise, which could result loss revenues and adversely affect our business. , Oracle America, Inc. ("Oracle") brought copyright lawsuit against Google the Northern District California, alleging that Google\' Android operating system infringes Oracle\' copyrights related certain Java application programming interfaces. After trial, final judgment was entered the district court favor Google June , , and the court decided post-trial motions favor Google. Oracle appealed and March , , the appeals court reversed and remanded the case for trial damages. May , , filed petition for rehearing the Federal Circuit, and August , , the Federal Circuit denied the petition. January , , filed petition the Supreme Court the United States review this case. April , , the Supreme Court requested the views the Solicitor General regarding our petition. September , , the Solicitor General recommended denying our petition, and provided our response October , . November , , the Supreme Court granted our petition and made decision review the case. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments our case October , . the Supreme Court does not rule our favor, the case will remanded the district court for further determination the remaining issues the case, including damages, any. believe this lawsuit without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Given the nature this case, are unable estimate the reasonably possible loss range loss, any, arising from this matter. Other are also regularly subject claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated our users, goods and services offered advertisers publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result substantial fines and penalties, injunctive relief, ongoing auditing and monitoring obligations, changes our products and services, alterations our business models and operations, and collateral related civil litigation other adverse consequences, all which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Certain these outstanding matters include speculative, substantial indeterminate monetary amounts. record liability when believe that probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. determine that loss reasonably possible and the loss range loss can estimated, Alphabet Inc. disclose the reasonably possible loss. evaluate developments our legal matters that could affect the amount liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments appropriate. Significant judgment required determine both likelihood there being and the estimated amount loss related such matters. With respect our outstanding matters, based our current knowledge, believe that the amount range reasonably possible loss will not, either individually aggregate, have material adverse effect our business, consolidated financial position, results operations, cash flows. However, the outcome such matters inherently unpredictable and subject significant uncertainties. expense legal fees the period which they are incurred. Non-Income Taxes are under audit various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards non-income tax matters. The subject matter non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes the tax treatment and tax rate applied the sale our products and services these jurisdictions and the tax treatment certain employee benefits. accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations , any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when loss probable and reasonably estimable. determine that loss reasonably possible and the loss range loss can estimated, disclose the reasonably possible loss. Due the inherent complexity and uncertainty these matters and judicial process certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may materially different from our expectations. For information regarding income tax contingencies, see Note . Note . Stockholders\' Equity Convertible Preferred Stock Our Board Directors has authorized million shares convertible preferred stock, $ par value, issuable series. December , and , shares were issued outstanding. Class and Class Common Stock and Class Capital Stock Our Board Directors has authorized three classes stock, Class and Class common stock, and Class capital stock. The rights the holders each class our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect voting. Each share Class common stock entitled one vote per share. Each share Class common stock entitled votes per share. Class capital stock has voting rights, except required applicable law. Shares Class common stock may converted any time the option the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale transfer Class common stock. Share Repurchases July , the Board Directors Alphabet authorized the company repurchase additional $ billion its Class capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time time, subject general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5- plans. The repurchase program does not have expiration date. During the years ended December , and , repurchased and subsequently retired million and million shares Alphabet Class capital stock for aggregate amount $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Note . Net Income Per Share compute net income per share Class and Class common stock and Class capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share computed using the weighted-average number shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share computed using the weighted-average number shares and the effect potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The computation the diluted net income per share Class common stock assumes the conversion Class common stock, while the diluted net income per share Class common stock does not assume the conversion those shares. The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, the holders our Class and Class common stock and Class capital stock are identical, except with respect voting. Furthermore, there are number Alphabet Inc. safeguards built into our certificate incorporation, well Delaware law, which preclude our Board Directors from declaring paying unequal per share dividends our Class and Class common stock and Class capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments our certificate incorporation which would have the effect adversely altering the rights, powers, preferences given class stock must approved the class stock adversely affected the proposed amendment. addition, our certificate incorporation provides that before any such amendment may put stockholder vote, must approved the unanimous consent our Board Directors. result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based the contractual participation rights the Class and Class common shares and Class capital stock the earnings for the year had been distributed. the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated proportionate basis. the years ended December , , and , the net income per share amounts are the same for Class and Class common stock and Class capital stock because the holders each class are entitled equal per share dividends distributions liquidation accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate Incorporation Alphabet Inc. The following tables set forth the computation basic and diluted net income per share Class and Class common stock and Class capital stock ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands and per share amounts): Year Ended December , Class Class Class Basic net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used per share computation , , , Basic net income per share $ $ $ Diluted net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings for basic computation $ , $ , $ , Reallocation undistributed earnings result conversion Class Class shares , Reallocation undistributed earnings ( ) ( ) Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used basic computation , , , Weighted-average effect dilutive securities Add: Conversion Class Class common shares outstanding , Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares , Number shares used per share computation , , , Diluted net income per share $ $ $ Alphabet Inc. Year Ended December , Class Class Class Basic net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used per share computation , , , Basic net income per share $ $ $ Diluted net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings for basic computation $ , $ , $ , Reallocation undistributed earnings result conversion Class Class shares , Reallocation undistributed earnings ( ) ( ) Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used basic computation , , , Weighted-average effect dilutive securities Add: Conversion Class Class common shares outstanding , Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares , Number shares used per share computation , , , Diluted net income per share $ $ $ Year Ended December , Class Class Class Basic net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used per share computation , , , Basic net income per share $ $ $ Diluted net income per share: Numerator Allocation undistributed earnings for basic computation $ , $ , $ , Reallocation undistributed earnings result conversion Class Class shares , Reallocation undistributed earnings ( ) ( ) Allocation undistributed earnings $ , $ , $ , Denominator Number shares used basic computation , , , Weighted-average effect dilutive securities Add: Conversion Class Class common shares outstanding , Restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares , Number shares used per share computation , , , Diluted net income per share $ $ $ Alphabet Inc. Note . Compensation Plans Stock Plans Our stock plans include the Alphabet Stock Plan and Other Bet stock-based plans. Under our stock plans, RSUs and other types awards may granted. RSU award agreement issue shares our publicly traded stock the time the award vests. RSUs granted participants under the Alphabet Stock Plan generally vest over four years contingent upon employment service with the vesting date. December , , there were , , shares stock reserved for future issuance under our Alphabet Stock Plan. Stock-Based Compensation For the years ended December , , and , total stock-based compensation expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion, including amounts associated with awards expect settle Alphabet stock $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. For the years ended December , , and , recognized tax benefits total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected the provision for income taxes the Consolidated Statements Income, $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. For the years ended December , , and , tax benefit realized related awards vested exercised during the period was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion, respectively. These amounts not include the indirect effects stock-based awards, which primarily relate the research and development tax credit. Stock-Based Award Activities The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested Alphabet RSUs for the year ended December , : Unvested Restricted Stock Units Number Shares Weighted- Average Grant-Date Fair Value Unvested December , , , $ , Granted , , , Vested ( , , ) , Forfeited canceled ( , , ) , Unvested December , , , $ , The weighted-average grant-date fair value RSUs granted during the years ended December , and , was $ , and $ , , respectively. Total fair value RSUs, their respective vesting dates, during the years ended December , , , and were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. December , , there was $ billion unrecognized compensation cost related unvested employee RSUs. This amount expected recognized over weighted-average period years. ( ) Plans have two ( ) Savings Plans that qualify deferred salary arrangements under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under these ( ) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount the employees’ contributions subject certain limitations. recognized expense approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Note . Income Taxes Income from continuing operations before income taxes consists the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Domestic operations $ , $ , $ , Foreign operations , , , Total $ , $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. The provision for income taxes consists the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Current: Federal and state $ , $ , $ , Foreign , , , Total , , , Deferred: Federal and state , Foreign ( ) ( ) ( ) Total , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The reconciliation federal statutory income tax rate our effective income tax rate follows: Year Ended December , . federal statutory tax rate % % % Foreign income taxed different rates ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign-derived intangible income deduction ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Federal research credit ( ) ( ) ( ) Impact the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( ) ( ) European Commission fines Deferred tax asset valuation allowance ( ) State and local income taxes ( ) Other adjustments ( ) Effective tax rate % % % Our effective tax rate for and was affected significantly earnings realized foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate because substantially all the income from foreign operations was earned Irish subsidiary. December , , have simplified our corporate legal entity structure and now license intellectual property from the . that was previously licensed from Bermuda resulting increase the portion our income earned the . July , , the United States Tax Court, opinion Altera Corp. . Commissioner, invalidated the portion the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section requiring related-party participants cost sharing arrangement share stock-based compensation costs. The . Tax Court issued the final decision December , . result that decision, recorded tax benefit related the anticipated reimbursement cost share payment for previously shared stock-based compensation costs. June , , the United States Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned the Tax Court decision Altera Corp. . Commissioner, and upheld the portion the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section requiring related-party participants cost sharing arrangement share stock-based compensation costs. result the Ninth Circuit court decision, our cumulative net tax benefit $ million related previously shared stock-based compensation costs was reversed the year ended December , . , there was increase valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets that are not likely realized relating certain our Other Bets. Alphabet Inc. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components our deferred tax assets and liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Deferred tax assets: Stock-based compensation expense $ $ Accrued employee benefits Accruals and reserves not currently deductible , , Tax credits , , Net operating losses , Operating leases , , Intangible assets , Other Total deferred tax assets , , Valuation allowance ( , ) ( , ) Total deferred tax assets net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Property and equipment, net ( , ) ( , ) Renewable energy investments ( ) ( ) Foreign Earnings ( ) ( ) Net investment gains ( , ) ( , ) Operating leases ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Total deferred tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ ( ) $ ( , ) December , , our federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion respectively. not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire , foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire . more likely than not that certain net operating loss carryforwards will not realized; therefore, have recorded valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject various annual limitations under the tax laws the different jurisdictions. December , , our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ billion that can carried over indefinitely. believe the state tax credit not likely realized. December , , maintained valuation allowance with respect California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, certain state tax credits, net deferred tax assets relating certain our Other Bets, and certain foreign net operating losses that believe are not likely realized. continue reassess the remaining valuation allowance quarterly and future evidence allows for partial full release the valuation allowance, tax benefit will recorded accordingly. Alphabet Inc. Uncertain Tax Positions The following table summarizes the activity related our gross unrecognized tax benefits ( millions): Year Ended December , Beginning gross unrecognized tax benefits $ , $ , $ , Increases related prior year tax positions Decreases related prior year tax positions ( ) ( ) ( ) Decreases related settlement with tax authorities ( ) ( , ) ( ) Increases related current year tax positions Ending gross unrecognized tax benefits $ , $ , $ , The total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion December , , , and , respectively, which, $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate, respectively. The decrease gross unrecognized tax benefits was primarily result the resolution multi-year audits. December , and , accrued $ million and $ million interest and penalties provision for income taxes, respectively. file income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions, our two major tax jurisdictions are the . federal and Ireland. are subject the continuous examination our income tax returns the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS currently examining our through tax returns. have also received tax assessments multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments permanent establishment. continue defend any and all such claims presented. The tax years through remain subject examination the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits various other jurisdictions that are not material our financial statements. regularly assess the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. continue monitor the progress ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the effect, any, the expected expiration the statute limitations various taxing jurisdictions. believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed our tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, could required adjust our provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing resolution, settlement, and closure audits not certain, not believe reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will materially change the next months. Note . Information about Segments and Geographic Areas Beginning the fourth quarter , report our segment results Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets: • Google Services includes products and services such ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales apps, -app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such YouTube Premium and YouTube . • Google Cloud includes Google’ infrastructure and data analytics platforms, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services and Google Workspace (formerly known Suite) collaboration tools. • Other Bets combination multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sale internet services well licensing and & services. Revenues and certain costs, such costs associated with content and traffic acquisition, certain engineering, and hardware costs and other operating expenses, are directly attributable our segments. Due the integrated nature Alphabet, other costs and expenses, such technical infrastructure and office facilities, are managed Alphabet Inc. centrally consolidated level. The associated costs, including depreciation and impairment, are allocated operating segments service cost generally based usage headcount. Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such finance and legal, including fines and settlements, well costs associated with certain shared research and development activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related revenue are included corporate costs. Our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not evaluate operating segments using asset information. Information about segments during the periods presented were follows ( millions). For comparative purposes, amounts prior periods have been recast: Year Ended December , Revenues: Google Services $ , $ , $ , Google Cloud , , , Other Bets Hedging gains (losses) ( ) Total revenues $ , $ , $ , Operating income (loss): Google Services $ , $ , $ , Google Cloud ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other Bets ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Corporate costs, unallocated ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total income from operations $ , $ , $ , ( ) Corporate costs, unallocated includes fine $ billion for the year ended December , and fine and legal settlement totaling $ billion for the year ended December , . For revenues geography, see Note . The following table presents certain our long-lived assets geographic area, which includes property and equipment, net and operating lease assets ( millions). December , December , Long-lived assets: United States $ , $ , International , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , Alphabet Inc. ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management, with the participation our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Rule 13a- under the Exchange Act, the end the period covered this Annual Report Form - . Based this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures are designed reasonable assurance level and are effective provide reasonable assurance that information are required disclose reports that file submit under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the SEC’ rules and forms, and that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, appropriate, allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Changes Internal Control over Financial Reporting rely extensively information systems manage our business and summarize and report operating results. , began multi-year implementation new global ERP system, which will replace much our existing core financial systems. The ERP system designed accurately maintain our financial records, enhance the flow financial information, improve data management and provide timely information our management team. The implementation expected occur phases over the next several years. The initial phase, which included changes our general ledger and consolidated financial reporting systems, was completed during the third quarter . There have been changes our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. However, the phased implementation the new ERP system continues, will change our processes and procedures, which turn, could result changes our internal control over financial reporting. such changes occur, will evaluate quarterly whether such changes materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. result COVID- , our global workforce continued operate primarily work from home environment for the quarter ended December , . While pre-existing controls were not specifically designed operate our current work from home operating environment, believe that our internal controls over financial reporting continue effective. have continued -evaluate and refine our financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance that could report our financial results accurately and timely. Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Exchange Act. Our management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective December , . Management reviewed the results its assessment with our Audit and Compliance Committee. The effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , has been audited Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, stated its report which included Item this Annual Report Form - . Limitations Effectiveness Controls and Procedures designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance achieving the desired control objectives. addition, the design disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management required apply its judgment evaluating the benefits possible controls and procedures relative their costs. ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION None. Alphabet Inc. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The information required this item will included under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance” our Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , ( Proxy Statement) and incorporated herein reference. The information required this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant Item Regulation - will included under the caption “Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information required this item will included under the captions “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information required this item will included under the captions “Common Stock Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information required this item will included under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance and Board Matters—Director Independence” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES The information required this item will included under the caption “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” the Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. Alphabet Inc. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES have filed the following documents part this Annual Report Form - : . Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements: . Financial Statement Schedules Schedule : Valuation and Qualifying Accounts The table below details the activity the allowance for credit losses and sales credits for the years ended December , , and ( millions): Balance Beginning Year Additions Usage Balance End Year Year ended December , $ $ , $ ( , ) $ Year ended December , $ $ , $ ( , ) $ Year ended December , $ $ , $ ( , ) $ , Note: Additions the allowance for credit losses are charged expense. Additions the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues. All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, the required information otherwise included. . Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Incorporated reference herein Form Date Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Alphabet Inc. Exhibit Number Description Incorporated reference herein Form Date Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Registration Statement Form - (File . - ) February , Registration Statement Form - (File . - ) February , Current Report Form - (File . - ) April , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Current Report Form - (File . - ) August , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) February , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , Current Report Form - (File . - ) June , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) March , Alphabet Inc. Exhibit Number Description Incorporated reference herein Form Date Annual Report Form - (File . - ) March , Registration Statement Form - (File . - ) April , Current Report Form - (File . - ) June , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) February , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) February , Registration Statement Form - (File . - ) May , Annual Report Form - (File . - ) February , * * * * * ‡ Current Report Form - (File . - ) September , Current Report Form - (File . - ) October , INS * Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document. SCH * XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document CAL * XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document DEF * XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document LAB * XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document Alphabet Inc. Exhibit Number Description Incorporated reference herein Form Date PRE * XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted Inline XBRL and contained Exhibit ) _________________ Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, arrangement. * Filed herewith. ‡ Furnished herewith. ', 'item 16. ': 'FORM - SUMMARY None. Alphabet Inc. '}