{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company\x92 products and services include iPhone ® , iPad ® , Mac ® , iPod ® , Apple Watch ® , Apple ® , portfolio consumer and professional software applications, iOS, ® and watchOS\x99 operating systems, iCloud ® , Apple Pay ® and variety accessory, service and support offerings. September , the Company announced new Apple , tvOS\x99 operating system and Apple App Store ® , which are expected available the end October . The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store ® , App Store, Mac App Store, iBooks Store\x99 and Apple Music\x99 (collectively \x93Internet Services\x94). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Apple compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company California corporation established . Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best user experience its customers through its innovative hardware, software and services. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software and services provide its customers products and solutions with innovative design, superior ease- -use and seamless integration. part its strategy, the Company continues expand its platform for the discovery and delivery digital content and applications through its Internet Services, which allows customers discover and download digital content, iOS, Mac and Apple Watch applications, and books through either Mac Windows-based computer through iPhone, iPad and iPod touch ® devices (\x93iOS devices\x94) and Apple Watch. The Company also supports community for the development third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company\x92 offerings. The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company\x92 products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. Therefore, the Company\x92 strategy also includes building and expanding its own retail and online stores and its third-party distribution network effectively reach more customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company believes ongoing investment research and development (\x93 & \x94), marketing and advertising critical the development and sale innovative products and technologies. Apple Inc. | Form - | Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. , the Company changed its reportable operating segments management began reporting business performance and making decisions primarily geographic basis, including the results its retail stores each respective geographic segment. Accordingly, the Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company\x92 other reportable operating segments. Although each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, they are managed separately better align with the location the Company\x92 customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company\x92 reportable operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Products iPhone iPhone the Company\x92 line smartphones based its iOS operating system. iPhone includes Siri ® , voice activated intelligent assistant, and Apple Pay and Touch \x99 qualifying devices. September , the Company introduced iPhone and Plus, featuring Touch, which senses force access features and interact with content and apps. iPhone works with the iTunes Store, App Store and iBooks Store for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps. iPhone compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple\x92 iCloud services, which provide synchronization across users\x92 devices. iPad iPad the Company\x92 line multi-purpose tablets based its iOS operating system, which includes iPad Air ® and iPad mini\x99. iPad includes Siri and also includes Touch qualifying devices. September , the Company announced the new iPad Pro\x99, featuring -inch Retina ® display, which expected available November . iPad works with the iTunes Store, App Store and iBooks Store for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps. iPad compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple\x92 iCloud services. Mac Mac the Company\x92 line desktop and portable personal computers based its operating system. The Company\x92 desktop computers include iMac ® , \x94 iMac with Retina Display, \x94 iMac with Retina Display, Mac Pro ® and Mac mini. The Company\x92 portable computers include MacBook ® , MacBook Air ® , MacBook Pro ® and MacBook Pro with Retina display. Operating System Software iOS iOS the Company\x92 Multi-Touch\x99 operating system that serves the foundation for iOS devices. Devices running iOS are compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple\x92 iCloud services. September , the Company released iOS , which provides more search abilities and improved Siri features. iOS also introduced new multitasking features designed specifically for iPad, including Slide Over and Split View, which allow users work with two apps simultaneously, and Picture- -Picture that allows users watch video while using another application. the Company\x92 Mac operating system and built open-source UNIX-based foundation and provides intuitive and integrated computer experience. Support for iCloud built into users can access content and information from Mac, iOS devices and other supported devices and access downloaded content and apps from the iTunes Store. Capitan, released September , the major release and incorporates additional window management features, including Split View and the new Spaces Bar Mission Control ® , which provides users intuitive way group applications. Apple Inc. | Form - | watchOS watchOS the Company\x92 operating system for Apple Watch. Released September , watchOS the first major software update for Apple Watch, providing users with new features, including new watch faces, the ability add third-party app information watch faces, Time Travel, and additional communication capabilities Mail, Friends and Digital Touch. watchOS also gives developers the ability build native apps for Apple Watch. tvOS September , the Company announced tvOS, its operating system for the new Apple , which expected available the end October . The tvOS operating system based the Company\x92 iOS platform and will enable developers create new apps and games specifically for Apple and deliver them customers through the new Apple App Store. Application Software The Company\x92 application software includes iLife ® , iWork ® and various other software, including Final Cut Pro ® , Logic ® Pro and FileMaker ® Pro. iLife the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital lifestyle software application suite included with all Mac computers and features iMovie ® , digital video editing application, and GarageBand ® , music creation application that allows users play, record and create music. iWork the Company\x92 integrated productivity suite included with all Mac computers and designed help users create, present and publish documents through Pages ® , presentations through Keynote ® and spreadsheets through Numbers ® . The Company also has Multi-Touch versions iLife and iWork applications designed specifically for use iOS devices, which are available free downloads for all new iPhones and iPads. Services Internet Services The iTunes Store, available for iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple , allows customers purchase and download music and shows, rent purchase movies and download free podcasts. The App Store, available for iOS devices, allows customers discover and download apps and purchase -app content. The Mac App Store, available for Mac computers, allows customers discover, download and install Mac applications. The iBooks Store, available for iOS devices and Mac computers, features -books from major and independent publishers. Apple Music offers users curated listening experience with -demand radio stations that evolve based user\x92 play download activity and subscription-based internet streaming service that also provides unlimited access the Apple Music library. September , the Company announced the Apple App Store, which provides customers access apps and games specifically for the new Apple . iCloud iCloud the Company\x92 cloud service which stores music, photos, contacts, calendars, mail, documents and more, keeping them - -date and available across multiple iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple . iCloud services include iCloud Drive , iCloud Photo Library, Family Sharing, Find iPhone, Find Friends, Notes, iCloud Keychain ® and iCloud Backup for iOS devices. AppleCare AppleCare ® offers range support options for the Company\x92 customers. These include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, the AppleCare Protection Plan (\x93APP\x94) and the AppleCare+ Protection Plan (\x93 +\x94). APP fee-based service that typically extends the service coverage phone support, hardware repairs and dedicated web-based support resources for Mac, Apple and display products. + fee-based service offering additional coverage under some circumstances for instances accidental damage addition the services offered APP and available certain countries for iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch and iPod. Apple Pay Apple Pay the Company\x92 mobile payment service available the . and . that offers easy, secure and private way pay. Apple Pay allows users pay for purchases stores accepting contactless payments and pay for purchases within participating apps qualifying devices. Apple Pay accepts credit and debit cards across major card networks and also supports reward programs and store-issued credit and debit cards. Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Products Accessories The Company sells variety Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible and iOS-compatible accessories, including Apple , Apple Watch, headphones, displays, storage devices, Beats products, and various other connectivity and computing products and supplies. Apple Apple connects consumers\x92 TVs and enables them access digital content directly for streaming high definition video, playing music and games, and viewing photos. Content from Apple Music and other media services are also available Apple . Apple allows streaming digital content from Mac and Windows personal computers through Home Share and through AirPlay ® from compatible Mac and iOS devices. September , the Company announced the new Apple running the Company\x92 tvOS operating system and based apps built for the television. Additionally, the new Apple remote features Siri, allowing users search and access content with their voice. The new Apple expected available the end October . Apple Watch Apple Watch personal electronic device that combines the watchOS user interface and technologies created specifically for smaller device, including the Digital Crown, unique navigation tool that allows users seamlessly scroll, zoom and navigate, and Force Touch, technology that senses the difference between tap and press and allows users access controls within apps. Apple Watch enables users communicate new ways from their wrist, track their health and fitness through activity and workout apps, and includes Siri and Apple Pay. iPod iPod the Company\x92 line portable digital music and media players, which includes iPod touch, iPod nano ® and iPod shuffle ® . All iPods work with iTunes purchase and synchronize content. iPod touch, based the Company\x92 iOS operating system, flash-memory-based iPod that works with the iTunes Store, App Store and iBooks Store for purchasing and playing digital content and apps. Developer Programs The Company\x92 developer programs support app developers with building, testing and distributing apps for iOS, Mac, Apple Watch and the new Apple . Developer program membership provides access beta software, the ability integrate advanced app capabilities ( ., iCloud, Game Center and Apple Pay), distribution the App Store, access App Analytics, and code-level technical support. Developer programs also exist for businesses creating apps for internal use (the Apple Developer Enterprise Program) and developers creating accessories for Apple devices (the MFi Program). All developers, even those who are not developer program members, can sign with their Apple post the Apple Developer Forums and use Xcode ® , the Company\x92 integrated development environment for creating apps for Apple platforms. Xcode includes project management tools; analysis tools collect, display and compare app performance data; simulation tools locally run, test and debug apps; and tools simplify the design and development user interfaces. All developers also have access extensive technical documentation and sample code. Markets and Distribution The Company\x92 customers are primarily the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs variety indirect distribution channels, such third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. During , the Company\x92 net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware and software integration and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors and providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues build and improve its distribution capabilities expanding the number its own retail stores worldwide. The Company\x92 retail stores are typically located high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. operating its own stores and locating them desirable high-traffic locations the Company better positioned ensure high quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing the Company\x92 products and related solutions. The retail stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training and offer wide selection third-party hardware, software and other accessories that complement the Company\x92 products. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high-quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level product expertise, integration and support services. The Company committed delivering solutions help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement and has designed range products, services and programs address the needs education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution , and access , education related materials through iTunes , platform that allows students and teachers share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its online and retail stores. The Company also sells its hardware and software products enterprise and government customers each its reportable operating segments. The Company\x92 products are deployed these markets because their performance, productivity, ease use and seamless integration into information technology environments. The Company\x92 products are compatible with thousands third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment custom applications well remote device administration. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , . Competition The markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive and the Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. These markets are characterized frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and other digital electronic devices. The Company\x92 competitors that sell mobile devices and personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. Principal competitive factors important the Company include price, product features (including security features), relative price and performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support and corporate reputation. The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related personal computers and mobile communication and media devices. These markets are highly competitive and include many large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition these markets intensify significantly competitors attempt imitate some the features the Company\x92 products and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These markets are characterized aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company\x92 digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company\x92 future financial condition and operating results depend the Company\x92 ability continue develop and offer new innovative products and services each the markets which competes. The Company believes offers superior innovation and integration the entire solution including the hardware (iOS devices, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple ), software (iOS, , watchOS and tvOS), online services and distribution digital content and applications (Internet Services). Some the Company\x92 current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\x92 offerings. Supply Components Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, number components are currently obtained from single limited sources. addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and the Company often utilizes custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply components were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers concentrated the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. While some Mac computers are manufactured the . and Ireland, substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are currently manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturers for many the Company\x92 products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods days. Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new technologies enhance existing products and expand the range its product offerings through & , licensing intellectual property and acquisition third-party businesses and technology. Total & expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. The Company has registered has applied for trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part such ownership, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated large portfolio issued patents around the world. The Company holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single patent copyright solely responsible for protecting the Company\x92 products. The Company believes the duration its patents adequate relative the expected lives its products. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able obtain such licenses commercially reasonable terms the past, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained the future reasonable terms all. Because technological changes the industries which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\x92 products, processes and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data During , the Company\x92 domestic and international net sales accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Apple Inc. | Form - | While some Mac computers are manufactured the . and Ireland, substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are currently manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia. The supply and manufacture number components performed sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding concentration the available sources supply materials and products set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Product introductions can also impact the Company\x92 net sales its indirect distribution channels these channels are filled with new product inventory following product introduction, and often, channel inventory particular product declines the next related major product launch approaches. Net sales can also affected when consumers and distributors anticipate product introduction. However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns product introductions should considered reliable indicators the Company\x92 future pattern product introductions, future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers limited parts and labor warranty most its hardware products. The basic warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the original end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. certain jurisdictions, local law requires that manufacturers guarantee their products for period prescribed statute, typically least two years. addition, where available, consumers may purchase APP +, which extends service coverage many the Company\x92 hardware products. Backlog the Company\x92 experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases immediately following new product introductions customers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees. Available Information The Company\x92 Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \x93SEC\x94). The Company subject the informational requirements the Exchange Act and files furnishes reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge the Company\x92 website investor apple com sec cfm when such reports are available the SEC\x92 website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\x92 Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov . The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\x92 references website URLs are intended inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors The following discussion risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may important understanding other statements this Form - . The following information should read conjunction with Part , Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes Part , Item , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 this Form - . The business, financial condition and operating results the Company can affected number factors, whether currently known unknown, including but not limited those described below, any one more which could, directly indirectly, cause the Company\x92 actual financial condition and operating results vary materially from past, from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any these factors, whole part, could materially and adversely affect the Company\x92 business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company\x92 operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions poses risk consumers and businesses may postpone spending response tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, government austerity programs, negative financial news, declines income asset values and other factors. These worldwide and regional economic conditions could have material adverse effect demand for the Company\x92 products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company\x92 expectations result currency fluctuations because the Company generally raises prices goods and services sold outside the . correspond with the effect strengthening the . dollar. Other factors that could influence worldwide regional demand include changes fuel and other energy costs, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment, labor and healthcare costs, access credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company\x92 products and services. the event financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, there could tightening the credit markets, low liquidity and extreme volatility fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. This could have number effects the Company\x92 business, including the insolvency financial instability outsourcing partners suppliers their inability obtain credit finance development and manufacture products resulting product delays; inability customers, including channel partners, obtain credit finance purchases the Company\x92 products; failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; and restrictions the Company\x92 ability issue new debt. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending gains losses realized the sale exchange financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations debt and equity securities and other investments; changes interest rates; increases decreases cash balances; volatility foreign exchange rates; and changes fair value derivative instruments. Increased volatility the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk the actual amounts realized the future the Company\x92 financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned them. Global markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change, and the Company may unable compete effectively these markets. The Company\x92 products and services compete highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price cutting and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction innovative new products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments & . The Company currently holds significant number patents and copyrights and has registered and has applied register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. contrast, many the Company\x92 competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and emulating the Company\x92 products and infringing its intellectual property. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins competitors infringe the Company\x92 intellectual property, the Company\x92 ability maintain competitive advantage could adversely affected. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships; and the Company has minority market share the global smartphone market. Additionally, the Company faces significant price competition competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt imitate the Company\x92 product features and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company competes with business models that include content provided users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways obtain third-party digital content and applications. Some the Company\x92 competitors have greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and lower cost structure, they may able provide products and services little profit even loss. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\x92 approach providing components seamlessly within their individual offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results depend substantially the Company\x92 ability continually improve iOS and iOS devices order maintain their functional and design advantages. The Company the only authorized maker hardware using , which has minority market share the personal computer market. This market has been contracting and dominated computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. the market for personal computers and accessories, the Company faces significant number competitors, many which have broader product lines, lower priced products and larger installed customer base. Historically, consolidation this market has resulted larger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. increasing number internet-enabled devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results also depend its ability continually improve the Mac platform maintain its functional and design advantages. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and successfully manage the transition these new and upgraded products. The success new product introductions depends number factors including, but not limited , timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with new product production ramp- issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and expected costs meet anticipated demand and the risk that new products may have quality other defects deficiencies the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions. The Company depends the performance distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, national and regional retailers and value-added resellers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and third-party products most its major markets directly education, enterprise and government customers and consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its online and retail stores. Carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone typically subsidize users\x92 purchases the device. There assurance that such subsidies will continued all the same amounts upon renewal the Company\x92 agreements with these carriers agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. Apple Inc. | Form - | Many resellers have narrow operating margins and have been adversely affected the past weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their business interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Such perception could discourage resellers from investing resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution those products. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs could require substantial investment while providing assurance return incremental revenue. The financial condition these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for some all the Company\x92 products could cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets, including capital assets held its suppliers\x92 facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its provisions related inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts and open orders, each case based projected demand. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. Purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods days. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient amounts components products, not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain components sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains components from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components, there can assurance that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. number suppliers components may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead business failure for the supplier consolidation within particular industry, further limiting the Company\x92 ability obtain sufficient quantities components. The effects global regional economic conditions the Company\x92 suppliers, described \x93 Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company\x94 above, also could affect the Company\x92 ability obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases. The Company and other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries. The Company\x92 new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected for any number reasons, including those suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. The supply components for new existing product could delayed constrained, key manufacturing vendor could delay shipments completed products the Company. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided outsourcing partners, many which are located outside the . Substantially all the Company\x92 manufacturing performed whole part few outsourcing partners located primarily Asia. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity products services, the Company\x92 flexibility respond changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects and could experience unanticipated product defect warranty liability. While the Company relies its partners adhere its supplier code conduct, material violations the supplier code conduct could occur. The Company relies sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe supply and manufacture many critical components, and outsourcing partners primarily located Asia, for final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products. Any failure these partners perform may have negative impact the Company\x92 cost supply components finished goods. addition, manufacturing logistics these locations transit final destinations may disrupted for variety reasons including, but not limited , natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues. The Company has invested manufacturing process equipment, much which held certain its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply components and finished goods, these outsourcing partners suppliers experience severe financial problems other disruptions their business, such continued supply could reduced terminated and the net realizable value these assets could negatively impacted. The Company\x92 products and services may experience quality problems from time time that can result decreased sales and operating margin and harm the Company\x92 reputation. The Company sells complex hardware and software products and services that can contain design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the software\x92 intended operation. The Company\x92 online services may from time time experience outages, service slowdowns, errors. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware, software and services sells. Failure could result lost revenue, significant warranty and other expenses and harm the Company\x92 reputation. The Company relies access third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with numerous third parties offer their digital content. This includes the right sell currently available music, movies, shows and books. The licensing other distribution arrangements with these third parties are for relatively short terms and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license otherwise distribute their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company\x92 access , increase the cost , such content. The Company may unable continue offer wide variety content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach. Failure obtain the right make available third-party digital content, make available such content commercially reasonable terms, could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company provide digital rights management and other security solutions. requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company license its digital rights management, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and also could negatively affect arrangements with the Company\x92 content providers. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company\x92 future performance depends part support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products depend part the availability third-party software applications and services. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company\x92 products. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company\x92 products, customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products. With respect its Mac products, the Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services depends part the developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products compared Windows-based products. This analysis may based factors such the market position the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, expected future growth Mac sales and the costs developing such applications and services. the Company\x92 minority share the global personal computer market causes developers question the Mac\x92 prospects, developers could less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company\x92 Mac products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. With respect iOS devices, the Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications, which are distributed through single distribution channel, the App Store. iOS devices are subject rapid technological change, and, third-party developers are unable choose not keep with this pace change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result dissatisfied customers. with applications for the Company\x92 Mac products, the availability and development these applications also depend developers\x92 perceptions and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining upgrading software for the Company\x92 iOS devices rather than its competitors\x92 platforms, such Android. developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company\x92 iOS devices may suffer. The Company relies access third-party intellectual property, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. Many the Company\x92 products include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties. Based past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally can obtained reasonable terms. There , however, assurance that the necessary licenses can obtained acceptable terms all. Failure obtain the right use third-party intellectual property, use such intellectual property commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products otherwise have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business, and additional claims may arise the future. For example, technology companies, including many the Company\x92 competitors, frequently enter into litigation based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights. addition, patent holding companies seek monetize patents they have purchased otherwise obtained. the Company has grown, the intellectual property rights claims against have increased and may continue increase. particular, the Company\x92 cellular enabled products compete with products from mobile communication and media device companies that hold significant patent portfolios, and the number patent claims against the Company has significantly increased. The Company vigorously defending infringement actions courts number . jurisdictions and before the . International Trade Commission, well internationally various countries. The plaintiffs these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless the scope validity such patents other intellectual property rights, the merits any claims potential actual litigants, the Company may have engage protracted litigation. the Company found infringe one more patents other intellectual property rights, regardless whether can develop non-infringing technology, may required pay substantial damages royalties third-party, may subject temporary permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain products. certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements, although assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Company\x92 operating expenses. Apple Inc. | Form - | Regardless the merit particular claims, litigation may expensive, time-consuming, disruptive the Company\x92 operations and distracting management. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into arrangements settle litigation. management\x92 opinion, there not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies, including matters related infringement intellectual property rights. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome could result significant compensatory, punitive trebled monetary damages, disgorgement revenue profits, remedial corporate measures injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company subject laws and regulations worldwide, changes which could increase the Company\x92 costs and individually the aggregate adversely affect the Company\x92 business. The Company subject laws and regulations affecting its domestic and international operations number areas. These . and foreign laws and regulations affect the Company\x92 activities including, but not limited , areas labor, advertising, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, -commerce, promotions, quality services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, television, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. way example, laws and regulations related mobile communications and media devices the many jurisdictions which the Company operates are extensive and subject change. Such changes could include, among others, restrictions the production, manufacture, distribution and use devices, locking devices carrier\x92 network, mandating the use devices more than one carrier\x92 network. These devices are also subject certification and regulation governmental and standardization bodies, well cellular network carriers for use their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result additional testing requirements, product modifications, delays product shipment dates, could preclude the Company from selling certain products. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may onerous and expensive, and they may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction, further increasing the cost compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise the future result changes these laws and regulations their interpretation, could individually the aggregate make the Company\x92 products and services less attractive the Company\x92 customers, delay the introduction new products one more regions, cause the Company change limit its business practices. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can assurance that the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company\x92 policies and procedures. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. The Company derives significant portion its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with applicable . and foreign laws and regulations, such import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs doing business foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures comply with these laws and regulations, violation the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents could nevertheless occur. Violations these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 brand, international growth efforts and business. The Company also could significantly affected other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited , economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs and political instability. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company also exposed credit and collectability risk its trade receivables with customers certain international markets. There can assurance the Company can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company\x92 retail stores have required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and are subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company\x92 retail stores have required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. Due the high cost structure associated with the Company\x92 retail stores, decline sales the closure poor performance individual multiple stores could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements and severance costs. Many factors unique retail operations, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, pose risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited , macro-economic factors that could have adverse effect general retail activity, well the Company\x92 inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation, the Company\x92 failure manage relationships with its existing retail partners, more challenging environments managing retail operations outside the ., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value retail inventory, and the Company\x92 inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return capital and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not successful. The Company\x92 business and reputation may impacted information technology system failures network disruptions. The Company may subject information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may caused natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts terrorism war, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, other events disruptions. System redundancy may ineffective inadequate, and the Company\x92 disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures disruptions could, among other things, prevent access the Company\x92 online stores and services, preclude retail store transactions, compromise Company customer data, and result delayed cancelled orders. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping products, delivery online services, transactions processing and financial reporting. There may breaches the Company\x92 information technology systems that materially damage business partner and customer relationships, curtail otherwise adversely impact access online stores and services, subject the Company significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Company\x92 business requires use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information (\x93PII\x94). This may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. Although malicious attacks gain access PII affect many companies across various industries, the Company relatively greater risk being targeted because its high profile and the amount PII manages. The Company requires user names and passwords order access its information technology systems. The Company also uses encryption and authentication technologies designed secure the transmission and storage data and prevent access Company data accounts. with all companies, these security measures are subject third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt fraudulently induce employees customers into disclosing user names, passwords other sensitive information, which may turn used access the Company\x92 information technology systems. help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors accounts and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which may result the delay loss customer orders. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company devotes significant resources network security, data encryption and other security measures protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. the extent the Company was experience breach its systems and was unable protect sensitive data, such breach could materially damage business partner and customer relationships, and curtail otherwise adversely impact access online stores and services. Moreover, computer security breach affects the Company\x92 systems results the unauthorized release PII, the Company\x92 reputation and brand could materially damaged, use the Company\x92 products and services could decrease, and the Company could exposed risk loss litigation and possible liability. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that, subject policy terms and conditions and subject significant self-insured retention, designed address certain aspects cyber risks, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise the continually evolving area cyber risk. The Company\x92 business subject variety . and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company subject federal, state and international laws relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer PII. many cases, these laws apply not only third-party transactions, but also transfers information between the Company and its subsidiaries, and among the Company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the Company has commercial relations. Several jurisdictions have passed laws this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue develop and may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company incur substantial costs require the Company change its business practices. Noncompliance could result penalties significant legal liability. The Company\x92 privacy policy, which includes related practices concerning the use and disclosure data, posted its website. Any failure the Company, its suppliers other parties with whom the Company does business comply with its posted privacy policy with other federal, state international privacy-related data protection laws and regulations could result proceedings against the Company governmental entities others. The Company also subject payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, information compromised, the Company could liable payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties. addition, the Company fails follow payment card industry security standards, even customer information compromised, the Company could incur significant fines experience significant increase payment card transaction costs. The Company\x92 success depends largely the continued service and availability key personnel. Much the Company\x92 future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially Silicon Valley, where most the Company\x92 key personnel are located. The Company\x92 business may impacted political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have material adverse effect the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company\x92 business operations are subject interruption , among others, natural disasters, whether result climate change otherwise, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company make and deliver products its customers, including channel partners, receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could adversely affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority the Company\x92 & activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are locations that could affected natural disasters. the event natural disaster, the Company could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures order resume operations. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate. The Company\x92 profit margins vary across its products and distribution channels. The Company\x92 software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain the Company\x92 other products. Gross margins the Company\x92 hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time result product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company\x92 direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. addition, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability, may materially adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, component cost increases, the strengthening . dollar, price competition, the introduction new products, including those that have higher cost structures with flat reduced pricing. The Company has typically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates majority its net sales from single product and decline demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also subject unexpected developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, issues with new product introductions, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners. The Company\x92 stock price subject volatility. The Company\x92 stock price has experienced substantial price volatility the past and may continue the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices ways that may have been unrelated these companies\x92 operating performance. Price volatility over given period may cause the average price which the Company repurchases its own stock exceed the stock\x92 price given point time. The Company believes its stock price should reflect expectations future growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue current levels grow and that its current share repurchase program will fully consummated. Future dividends are subject declaration the Company\x92 Board Directors, and the Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. the Company fails meet expectations related future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases other market expectations, its stock price may decline significantly, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. The Company\x92 financial performance subject risks associated with changes the value the . dollar versus local currencies. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relates non- . dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar adversely affects the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company\x92 products. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. some circumstances, for competitive other reasons, the Company may decide not raise local prices fully offset the dollar\x92 strengthening, all, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies relative the . dollar, while generally beneficial the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may also increase the Company\x92 cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset any, more than portion, the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the market values its investment portfolio. Given the global nature its business, the Company has both domestic and international investments. Credit ratings and pricing the Company\x92 investments can negatively affected liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk other factors. result, the value and liquidity the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations their value could result significant realized loss. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements, and this risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. The Company also sells its products directly small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral, third-party financing arrangements credit insurance. The Company\x92 exposure credit and collectability risk its trade receivables higher certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. September , , significant portion the Company\x92 trade receivables was concentrated within cellular network carriers, and its vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements were concentrated among few individual vendors located primarily Asia. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company could subject changes its tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation exposure additional tax liabilities. The Company subject taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where number the Company\x92 subsidiaries are organized. Due economic and political conditions, tax rates various jurisdictions may subject significant change. The Company\x92 effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation, including the . and Ireland. For example, June , the European Commission opened formal investigation Ireland examine whether decisions the tax authorities with regard the corporate income tax paid two the Company\x92 Irish subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. the European Commission were conclude against Ireland, could require Ireland recover from the Company past taxes covering period years reflective the disallowed state aid, and such amount could material. The Company also subject the examination its tax returns and other tax matters the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance the outcome these examinations. the Company\x92 effective tax rates were increase, particularly the . Ireland, the ultimate determination the Company\x92 taxes owed for amount excess amounts previously accrued, the Company\x92 financial condition, operating results and cash flows could adversely affected. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned leased million square feet building space, primarily the . The Company also owned leased building space various locations, including throughout Europe, China, Singapore and Japan. the total owned leased building space million square feet was leased building space, which includes approximately million square feet related retail store space. Additionally, the Company owns total , acres land various locations. September , , the Company owned manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also housed customer support call center; facilities Elk Grove, California that included warehousing and distribution operations and customer support call center; and facility Mesa, Arizona. The Company also owned land Austin, Texas where expanding its existing office space and customer support call center. addition, the Company owned facilities and land for & and corporate functions San Jose, California and Cupertino, California, including land that being developed for the Company\x92 second corporate campus. The Company also owned data centers Newark, California; Maiden, North Carolina; Prineville, Oregon; and Reno, Nevada. Outside the ., the Company owned additional facilities for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used all operating segments, are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject the legal proceedings and claims discussed below well certain other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. See the risk factor \x93 The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights \x94 Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors.\x94 The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Apple eBooks Antitrust Litigation (United States America . Apple Inc., .) April , , the . Department Justice filed civil antitrust action against the Company and five major book publishers the . District Court for the Southern District New York, alleging unreasonable restraint interstate trade and commerce violation § the Sherman Act and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, the District Court\x92 declaration that the Company\x92 agency agreements with the publishers are null and void and the District Court\x92 reformation such agreements. July , , the District Court found, following bench trial, that the Company conspired restrain trade violation § the Sherman Act and relevant state statutes the extent those laws are congruent with § the Sherman Act. The District Court entered permanent injunction, which took effect October , and will effect for five years unless the judgment overturned appeal. The Company has taken the necessary steps comply with the terms the District Court\x92 order, including renegotiating agreements with the five major eBook publishers, updating its antitrust training program and completing two-year monitorship with court-appointed antitrust compliance monitor, whose appointment the District Court ended October . The Company appealed the District Court\x92 decision. Pursuant settlement agreement reached June , any damages the Company may obligated pay will determined the outcome the final adjudication following exhaustion all appeals. ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company\x92 common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (\x93NASDAQ\x94) under the symbol AAPL. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest intraday sales prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ during each quarter the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter price range per share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ price range per share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company paid total $ billion and $ billion dividends during and , respectively, and expects pay quarterly dividends $ per common share each quarter, subject declaration the Board Directors. The Company also plans increase its dividend annual basis, subject declaration the Board Directors. Apple Inc. | Form - | Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September , was follows ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares That May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( ) June , August , : May ASR , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , August , August , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , August , September , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , Total , $ , ( ) , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion the Company\x92 common stock beginning . The Company\x92 Board Directors increased the authorization repurchase the Company\x92 common stock $ billion April , $ billion April and $ billion April . September , , $ billion the $ billion had been utilized. The remaining $ billion the table represents the amount available repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program September , . The Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. ( ) May , the Company entered into accelerated share repurchase arrangement (\x93ASR\x94) purchase $ billion the Company\x92 common stock. July , the purchase period for this ASR ended and additional million shares were delivered and retired. total, million net shares were delivered under this ASR average repurchase price $ . Apple Inc. | Form - | Company Stock Performance The following graph shows comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September , . The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company\x92 common stock, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index the market close September , . Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. * $ invested stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Data points are the last day each fiscal year for the Company\x92 common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright © & , division McGraw Hill Financial. All rights reserved. Copyright © Dow Jones & . All rights reserved. September September September September September September Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & Index $ $ $ $ $ $ & Information Technology Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September , , not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Part , Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Part , Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts). Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , , , , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Commercial paper $ , $ , $ $ $ Total term debt ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ $ Other long-term obligations ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Other long-term obligations exclude non-current deferred revenue. ( ) Includes current and long-term portion term debt. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Annual Report Form - (\x93Form - \x94) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act , that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations future events based certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate any historical current fact. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93future,\x94 \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93estimates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93intends,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 \x93will,\x94 \x93would,\x94 \x93could,\x94 \x93can,\x94 \x93may,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors,\x94 which are incorporated herein reference. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Part , Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months periods refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Each the terms the \x93Company\x94 and \x93Apple\x94 used herein refers collectively Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Overview and Highlights The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Apple compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. Fiscal Highlights Net sales rose % $ billion during compared , driven % year-over-year increase iPhone ® net sales. iPhone net sales and unit sales increased all the Company\x92 reportable operating segments. The Company also experienced year-over-year net sales increases Mac ® , Services and Other Products. Apple Watch ® , which launched during the third quarter , accounted for more than % the year-over-year growth net sales Other Products. Net sales growth during was partially offset the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar and lower iPad ® net sales. Total net sales increased each the Company\x92 reportable operating segments, with particularly strong growth Greater China where year-over-year net sales increased %. April , the Company announced significant increase its capital return program raising the expected total size the program $ billion through March . This included increasing its share repurchase authorization $ billion and raising its quarterly dividend $ per share beginning May . During , the Company spent $ billion repurchase shares its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion. Additionally, the Company issued $ billion . dollar-denominated, \x80 billion euro-denominated, SFr1 billion Swiss franc-denominated, £ billion British pound-denominated, $ billion Australian dollar-denominated and ¥ billion Japanese yen-denominated term debt during . Fiscal Highlights Net sales rose % $ billion during compared . This was driven increases net sales iPhone, Mac and Services. Net sales and unit sales increased for iPhone primarily due the successful introduction iPhone and the latter half calendar year , the successful launch iPhone and Plus beginning the fourth quarter , and expanded distribution. Mac net sales and unit sales increased primarily due strong demand for MacBook Air ® and MacBook Pro ® which were updated with faster processors and offered lower prices. Net sales Services grew primarily due increased revenue from sales through the App Store ® , AppleCare ® and licensing. Growth these areas was partially offset the year-over-year decline net sales for iPad due lower unit sales many markets, and decline net sales Other Products. All the Company\x92 operating segments other than the Rest Asia Pacific segment experienced increased net sales , with growth being strongest the Greater China and Japan operating segments. During , the Company completed various business acquisitions, including the acquisitions Beats Music, LLC, which offers subscription streaming music service, and Beats Electronics, LLC, which makes Beats ® headphones, speakers and audio software. Apple Inc. | Form - | April , the Company increased its share repurchase authorization $ billion and the quarterly dividend was raised $ per common share, resulting overall increase its capital return program from $ billion over $ billion. During , the Company utilized $ billion repurchase its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion. The Company also issued $ billion long-term debt during , with varying maturities through , and launched commercial paper program, with $ billion outstanding September , . Sales Data The following table shows net sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product during , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas $ , % $ , % $ , Europe , % , % , Greater China , % , % , Japan , % , % , Rest Asia Pacific , % , ( )% , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Net Sales Product: iPhone ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , iPad ( ) , ( )% , ( )% , Mac ( ) , % , % , Services ( ) , % , % , Other Products ( )( ) , % , ( )% , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: iPhone , % , % , iPad , ( )% , ( )% , Mac , % , % , ( ) Includes deferrals and amortization related software upgrade rights and non-software services. ( ) Includes revenue from the iTunes Store ® , App Store, Mac App Store, iBooks Store\x99 and Apple Music\x99 (collectively \x93Internet Services\x94), AppleCare, Apple Pay ® , licensing and other services. ( ) Includes sales Apple ® , Apple Watch, Beats products, iPod and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. Apple Inc. | Form - | Product Performance iPhone The following table presents iPhone net sales and unit sales information for , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , % , % , The year-over-year growth iPhone net sales and unit sales during primarily resulted from strong demand for iPhone and Plus during . Overall average selling prices (\x93ASPs\x94) for iPhone increased % during compared , due primarily the introduction iPhone and Plus September , partially offset the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar. The year-over-year growth iPhone net sales and unit sales resulted primarily from the successful introduction new iPhones the latter half calendar year , the successful launch iPhone and Plus beginning September , and expanded distribution. iPhone unit sales grew all the Company\x92 operating segments, while iPhone net sales grew all segments except Rest Asia Pacific. Overall ASPs for iPhone were relatively flat compared , with growth ASPs the Americas segment being offset decline ASPs the Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific segments. iPad The following table presents iPad net sales and unit sales information for , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , Net sales and unit sales for iPad declined during compared . The Company believes the decline iPad sales due part longer repurchase cycle for iPads and some level cannibalization from the Company\x92 other products. iPad ASPs declined % during compared , primarily result the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar and shift mix lower-priced iPads. Net sales and unit sales for iPad declined compared . iPad net sales and unit sales grew the Greater China and Japan segments but this growth was more than offset decline all other segments. Overall iPad ASPs were relatively flat compared with shift mix higher-priced iPads being offset the October price reduction iPad mini\x99. ASPs increased the Japan and Rest Asia Pacific segments but were slightly down other segments. Mac The following table presents Mac net sales and unit sales information for , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , % , % , The year-over-year growth Mac net sales and unit sales during was driven strong demand for Mac portables. Mac ASPs declined % during compared largely due the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar. The year-over-year growth Mac net sales and unit sales for was primarily driven increased sales MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac Pro. Mac net sales and unit sales increased all the Company\x92 operating segments. Mac ASPs decreased during compared primarily due price reductions certain Mac models and shift mix towards Mac portable systems. Apple Inc. | Form - | Services The following table presents net sales information Services for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The increase net sales Services during compared was primarily due growth from Internet Services and licensing. The App Store, included within Internet Services, generated strong year-over-year net sales growth %. The increase net sales Services compared was primarily due growth net sales from Internet Services, AppleCare and licensing. Internet Services generated total $ billion net sales during compared $ billion during . Growth net sales from Internet Services was driven increases revenue from app sales reflecting continued growth the installed base iOS devices and the expanded offerings iOS apps and related -app purchases. This was partially offset decline sales digital music. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company\x92 other reportable operating segments. Although, each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, they are managed separately better align with the location the Company\x92 customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company\x92 reportable operating segments can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Americas The following table presents Americas net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The year-over-year growth Americas net sales during was driven primarily growth net sales and unit sales iPhone, partially offset decline net sales and unit sales iPad. The growth the Americas segment was due increased net sales iPhone, Mac and Services that was partially offset decline net sales iPad and Other Products and weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar compared . iPhone growth resulted primarily from the successful introduction iPhone and September and the successful launch iPhone and Plus September . Mac growth was driven primarily increased net sales and unit sales MacBook Air and Mac Pro. Europe The following table presents Europe net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The year-over-year increase Europe net sales during was driven primarily growth net sales and unit sales iPhone, partially offset the effect weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar and decline net sales and unit sales iPad. The growth the Europe segment was due increased net sales iPhone, Mac and Services, well strength European currencies relative the . dollar, partially offset decline net sales iPad. iPhone growth resulted primarily from the successful introduction iPhone and the second half calendar and the successful launch iPhone and Plus over countries Europe September . Mac growth was driven primarily increased net sales and unit sales MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac Pro. Apple Inc. | Form - | Greater China The following table presents Greater China net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Greater China experienced strong year-over-year increases net sales during driven primarily iPhone sales. The Greater China segment experienced year-over-year growth net sales that was significantly higher than the growth rate for the Company overall. Greater China growth was driven higher unit sales and net sales all major product categories, addition higher net sales Services. Growth net sales and unit sales iPhone was especially strong, driven the successful launch iPhone and Mainland China and Hong Kong September , the successful launch iPhone and Plus Hong Kong September , increased demand for the Company\x92 entry-priced iPhones and the addition significant new carrier the second quarter . Japan The following table presents Japan net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The year-over-year increase Japan net sales during was driven primarily growth Services largely associated with strong App Store sales, partially offset the effect weakness the Japanese yen relative the . dollar. the Japan segment generated year-over-year increases net sales and unit sales every major product category and experienced growth net sales Services. The year-over-year growth iPhone was driven the successful launch iPhone and September , the successful launch iPhone and Plus September , increased demand for the Company\x92 entry-priced iPhones and the addition significant new carrier the fourth quarter . These positive factors were partially offset weakness the Japanese Yen relative the . dollar. Rest Asia Pacific The following table presents Rest Asia Pacific net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The year-over-year increase Rest Asia Pacific net sales during primarily reflects strong growth net sales and unit sales iPhone, partially offset the effect weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar and decline net sales and unit sales iPad. Net sales the Rest Asia Pacific segment declined compared due year-over-year reductions net sales all major product categories except Mac and reductions unit sales iPad. Net sales were also negatively affected the weakness several foreign currencies relative the . dollar, including the Australian dollar. Apple Inc. | Form - | Gross Margin Gross margin for , and follows (dollars millions): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % The year-over-year increase the gross margin percentage was driven primarily favorable shift mix products with higher margins and, lesser extent, improved leverage fixed costs from higher net sales. These positive factors were partially offset primarily higher product cost structures and, lesser extent, the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar. The year-over-year increase the gross margin percentage was driven multiple factors including lower commodity costs, favorable shift mix products with higher margins and improved leverage fixed costs from higher net sales, which was partially offset the weakness several foreign currencies relative the . dollar, price reductions select products and higher cost structures certain new products. The Company anticipates gross margin during the first quarter between % and %. The foregoing statement regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin percentage the first quarter forward-looking and could differ from actual results. The Company\x92 future gross margins can impacted multiple factors including, but not limited , those set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors\x94 and those described this paragraph. general, the Company believes gross margins will remain under downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions, potential increases the cost components, and potential strengthening the . dollar, well potential increases the costs outside manufacturing services and potential shift the Company\x92 sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. response competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, its financial condition and operating results, including gross margins, could significantly affected fluctuations exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for , and are follows (dollars millions): Change Change Research and development $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Total operating expenses $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Research and Development The year-over-year growth & expense and was driven primarily increase headcount and related expenses, including share-based compensation costs, and material costs support expanded & activities. The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and updated products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth selling, general and administrative expense and was primarily due increased headcount and related expenses, including share-based compensation costs, and higher spending marketing and advertising. Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net for , and are follows (dollars millions): Change Change Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , % $ ( )% $ , The increase other income/(expense), net during compared was due primarily higher interest income, partially offset higher expenses associated with foreign exchange activity and higher interest expense debt. The decrease other income and expense during compared was due primarily higher interest expense debt and higher expenses associated with foreign exchange rate movements, partially offset lower premium expenses foreign exchange contracts and higher interest income. The weighted-average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was %, % and % , and , respectively. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for , and are follows (dollars millions): Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company\x92 effective tax rates for , and differ from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings, substantial portion which was generated subsidiaries organized Ireland, for which . taxes are provided when such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . The higher effective tax rate during compared was due primarily higher foreign taxes. The effective tax rate compared was relatively flat. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses and tax credits $ billion and deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and the amount valuation allowance. The . Internal Revenue Service currently examining the years through , and all years prior are closed. addition, the Company subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. June , , the European Commission issued opening decision initiating formal investigation against Ireland for alleged state aid the Company. The opening decision concerns the allocation profits for taxation purposes the Irish branches two subsidiaries the Company. The Company believes the European Commission\x92 assertions are without merit. the European Commission were conclude against Ireland, the European Commission could require Ireland recover from the Company past taxes covering period years reflective the disallowed state aid. While such amount could material, September , the Company unable estimate the impact. Apple Inc. | Form - | Recent Accounting Pronouncements May , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued Accounting Standards Update (\x93ASU\x94) . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ) (\x93ASU - \x94), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU - based principles that govern the recognition revenue amount entity expects entitled when products are transferred customers. The original effective date for ASU - would have required the Company adopt beginning its first quarter . August , the FASB issued ASU . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ) \x96 Deferral the Effective Date, which defers the effective date ASU - for one year and permits early adoption early the original effective date ASU - . Accordingly, the Company may adopt the standard either its first quarter . The new revenue standard may applied retrospectively each prior period presented retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized the date adoption. The Company currently evaluating the timing its adoption and the impact adopting the new revenue standard its consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics and for the years ended September , , September , and September , ( millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , Property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , $ , Commercial paper $ , $ , $ Total term debt $ , $ , $ , Working capital $ , $ , $ , Cash generated operating activities $ , $ , $ , Cash used investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cash used financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. The Company currently anticipates the cash used for future dividends, the share repurchase program and debt repayments will come from its current domestic cash, cash generated from -going . operating activities and from borrowings. September , and September , , the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held foreign subsidiaries were $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\x92 marketable securities investment portfolio invested primarily highly-rated securities and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy requires investments generally investment grade with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. During , cash generated from operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income, non-cash adjustments net income $ billion and increase the net change operating assets and liabilities $ billion. Cash used investing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used for purchases marketable securities, net sales and maturities, $ billion and cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion. Cash used financing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used repurchase common stock $ billion and cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion, partially offset net proceeds from the issuance term debt $ billion. During , cash generated from operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income, non-cash adjustments net income $ billion and increase net change operating assets and liabilities $ billion. Cash used investing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used for purchases marketable securities, net sales and maturities, $ billion; cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion; and cash paid for business acquisitions, net cash acquired, $ billion. Cash used financing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used repurchase common stock $ billion and cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion, partially offset net proceeds from the issuance term debt and commercial paper $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | Capital Assets The Company\x92 capital expenditures were $ billion during . The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $ billion for capital expenditures during , which includes product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; data centers; corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements; and retail store facilities. Debt , the Board Directors authorized the Company issue unsecured short-term promissory notes (\x93Commercial Paper\x94) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company intends use the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , , the Company had $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, with weighted-average interest rate % and maturities generally less than nine months. September , , the Company has outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the \x93Notes\x94). The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk the Notes. addition, the Company has entered, and the future may enter, into currency swaps manage foreign currency risk the Notes. The future principal payments for the Company\x92 Notes September , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total term debt $ , Further information regarding the Company\x92 debt issuances and related hedging activity can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes the Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Financial Instruments\x94 and Note , \x93Debt.\x94 Capital Return Program April , the Company\x92 Board Directors increased the share repurchase program authorization from $ billion $ billion the Company\x92 common stock, increasing the expected total size the capital return program $ billion. The Company expects execute the capital return program the end March paying dividends and dividend equivalents, repurchasing shares and remitting withheld taxes related net share settlement restricted stock units. assist funding its capital return program, the Company expects continue access the debt markets, both domestically and internationally. September , , $ billion the share repurchase program has been utilized. The Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended. April , the Company\x92 Board Directors raised the quarterly cash dividend %. The Company plans increase its dividend annual basis subject declaration the Board Directors. The following table presents the Company\x92 dividends, dividend equivalents, share repurchases and net share settlement activity from the start the capital return program August through September , ( millions): Dividends and Dividend Equivalents Paid Accelerated Share Repurchases Open Market Share Repurchases Taxes Related Settlement Equity Awards Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , , , , , , , Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company, engages leasing, hedging, & services with the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , , and excludes amounts already recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheet, except for term debt ( millions): Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Total Term debt $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating leases , , , , Purchase commitments , , Other obligations , , , Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating Leases The Company\x92 major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company had total retail stores. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Purchase Commitments The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and testing finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments $ billion. Other Obligations The Company\x92 other off-balance sheet obligations were comprised commitments acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related inventory prepayments, advertising, licensing, & , internet and telecommunications services, energy and other obligations. The Company\x92 other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. September , , the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Additionally, September , , the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits $ billion and additional $ billion for gross interest and penalties classified non-current liabilities. this time, the Company unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments individual years connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included the above contractual obligation table. Indemnification The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss with respect indemnification end-users its operating system application software for infringement third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record liability for infringement costs related indemnification September , September , . Apple Inc. | Form - | September , the Company introduced the iPhone Upgrade Program, which available customers who purchase iPhone and Plus one its . physical retail stores and activate the purchased iPhone with one the four national carriers. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right trade that iPhone for new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. One the conditions this program requires the customer finance the initial purchase price the iPhone with third-party lender. Upon exercise the trade- right and purchase new iPhone, the Company satisfies the customer\x92 outstanding balance due the third-party lender the original device. The Company accounts for the trade- right guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net the fair value such right with subsequent changes the guarantee liability recognized within revenue. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies,\x94 the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Part , Item this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, valuation and impairment marketable securities, inventory valuation and valuation manufacturing-related assets and estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, accessories, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title, risk loss and rewards ownership have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. For payment terms excess the Company\x92 standard payment terms, revenue recognized payments become due unless the Company has positive evidence that the sales price fixed determinable, such successful history collection, without concession, comparable arrangements. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry-specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product\x92 functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product\x92 essential software and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94) and (iii) best estimate selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. Apple Inc. | Form - | For sales qualifying versions iOS devices, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time time provide future unspecified software upgrades the device\x92 essential software and non-software services free charge. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the unspecified software upgrade rights the non-software services, revenue allocated these rights and services based the Company\x92 ESPs. Revenue allocated the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services based the Company\x92 ESPs deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided. The Company\x92 process for determining ESPs involves management\x92 judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. Should future facts and circumstances change, the Company\x92 ESPs and the future rate related amortization for unspecified software upgrades and non-software services related future sales these devices could change. Factors subject change include the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services offered, the estimated value unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services and the estimated period unspecified software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Company\x92 policy requires that, refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For the Company\x92 other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs that could result reductions future revenue. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Management\x92 estimates are based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeems such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which would have adverse impact the Company\x92 operating results. Valuation and Impairment Marketable Securities The Company\x92 investments available-for-sale securities are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related changes the fair value securities are recognized accumulated other comprehensive income, net tax, the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes the fair value available-for-sale securities impact the Company\x92 net income only when such securities are sold other-than-temporary impairment recognized. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are determined specific identification each security\x92 cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio determine any security other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company record impairment charge the period any such determination made. making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent which the fair value security less than its cost; the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto; and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether will more likely than not required sell, the security before recovery its amortized cost basis. The Company\x92 assessment whether security other-than-temporarily impaired could change the future due new developments changes assumptions related any particular security, which would have adverse impact the Company\x92 operating results. Inventory Valuation and Valuation Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimated Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees The Company must purchase components and build inventory advance product shipments and has invested manufacturing-related assets, including capital assets held its suppliers\x92 facilities. addition, the Company has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels and component cost trends. The Company also reviews its manufacturing-related capital assets and inventory prepayments for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. the Company determines that asset not recoverable, records impairment loss equal the amount which the carrying value such asset exceeds its fair value. The industries which the Company competes are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. certain circumstances the Company may required record additional write-downs inventory and manufacturing-related assets. These circumstances include future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products being less favorable than forecasted, unforeseen technological changes changes the Company\x92 product development plans that negatively impact the utility any these assets, significant deterioration the financial condition one more the Company\x92 suppliers that hold any the Company\x92 manufacturing-related assets whom the Company has made inventory prepayment. Such write-downs would adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results the period when the write-downs were recorded. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company accrues for estimated cancellation fees related inventory orders that have been cancelled are expected cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders each case based projected demand. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. Purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products, change the Company\x92 product development plans, unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, the Company may required record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would adversely affect its results operations the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company accrues for the estimated cost warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company regularly reviews these estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities the current installed base products subject warranty protection and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liabilities would required and could materially affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences its reported operating results. The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets and liabilities are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. the event that the Company determines all part the net deferred tax assets are not realizable the future, the Company will record adjustment the valuation allowance that would charged earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Commitments and Contingencies,\x94 the Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. The Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable. There significant judgment required both the probability determination and whether exposure can reasonably estimated. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. Given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance these positions will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further, the recognition the gains and losses related these instruments may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk The Company\x92 exposure changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio and outstanding debt. While the Company exposed global interest rate fluctuations, the Company\x92 interest income and expense are most sensitive fluctuations . interest rates. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value those securities, well costs associated with hedging and interest paid the Company\x92 debt. The Company\x92 investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting the Company\x92 liquidity requirements. The Company uses combination internal and external management execute its investment strategy and achieve its investment objectives. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy requires investments generally investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , and September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ billion and $ billion incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio, respectively. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. September , and September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate carrying amount $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The Company has entered, and may enter the future, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk its outstanding term debt. Interest rate swaps allow the Company effectively convert fixed-rate payments into floating-rate payments floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments. Gains and losses these instruments are generally offset the corresponding losses and gains the related hedging instrument. basis point increase market interest rates would cause interest expense the Company\x92 debt September , and September , increase $ million and $ million annualized basis, respectively. Further details regarding the Company\x92 debt provided Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Debt.\x94 Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there have been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments foreign subsidiaries. addition, the Company has entered, and may enter the future, into non-designated foreign currency contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses its foreign-denominated debt issuances. The Company\x92 practice hedge portion its material foreign exchange exposures, typically for months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. Apple Inc. | Form - | provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (\x93VAR\x94) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the loss fair value incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Apple Inc. | Form - | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income/(expense), net , , Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income/(loss): Change foreign currency translation, net tax effects $ , $ and $ , respectively ( ) ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments: Change fair value derivatives, net tax benefit/(expense) $( ), $( ) and $( ), respectively , , Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income, net tax expense/(benefit) $ , $( ) and $ , respectively ( , ) ( ) Total change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax ( ) , Change unrealized gains losses marketable securities: Change fair value marketable securities, net tax benefit/(expense) $ , $( ) and $ , respectively ( ) ( ) Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income, net tax expense/(benefit) $( ), $ and $ , respectively ( ) ( ) Total change unrealized gains losses marketable securities, net tax ( ) ( ) Total other comprehensive income/(loss) ( , ) , ( ) Total comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and par value) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , , Inventories , , Deferred tax assets , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Long-term marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Goodwill , , Acquired intangible assets, net , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Deferred revenue , , Commercial paper , , Current portion long-term debt , Total current liabilities , , Deferred revenue, non-current , , Long-term debt , , Other non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock and additional paid- capital, $ par value: , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income ( ) , Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands) Common Stock and Additional Paid- Capital Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) Total Shareholders\x92 Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , , $ , $ , $ $ , Net income , , Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( ) Dividends and dividend equivalents declared ( , ) ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments , , Balances September , , , , , ( ) , Net income , , Other comprehensive income/(loss) , , Dividends and dividend equivalents declared ( , ) ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments Balances September , , , , , , , Net income , , Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( , ) ( , ) Dividends and dividend equivalents declared ( , ) ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation , , Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments Balances September , , , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income tax expense , , , Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) ( , ) Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Vendor non-trade receivables ( , ) ( , ) Other current and non-current assets ( ) , Accounts payable , , , Deferred revenue , , , Other current and non-current liabilities , , , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net ( ) ( , ) ( ) Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for acquisition intangible assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from equity awards Taxes paid related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Dividends and dividend equivalents paid ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance term debt, net , , , Change commercial paper, net , , Cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Increase/(decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Cash paid for interest $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note \x96 Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. the opinion the Company\x92 management, the consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are normal and recurring nature, necessary for fair financial statement presentation. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company\x92 fiscal years , and ended September , , September , and September , , respectively. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal years , and each spanned weeks. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months and periods refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, accessories, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title, risk loss and rewards ownership have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. For payment terms excess the Company\x92 standard payment terms, revenue recognized payments become due unless the Company has positive evidence that the sales price fixed determinable, such successful history collection, without concession, comparable arrangements. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For the sale most third-party products, the Company recognizes revenue based the gross amount billed customers because the Company establishes its own pricing for such products, retains related inventory risk for physical products, the primary obligor the customer and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. For third-party applications sold through the App Store and Mac App Store and certain digital content sold through the iTunes Store, the Company does not determine the selling price the products and not the primary obligor the customer. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing net sales only the commission retains from each sale. The portion the gross amount billed customers that remitted the Company third-party app developers and certain digital content owners not reflected the Company\x92 Consolidated Statements Operations. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company records deferred revenue when receives payments advance the delivery products the performance services. This includes amounts that have been deferred for unspecified and specified software upgrade rights and non-software services that are attached hardware and software products. The Company sells gift cards redeemable its retail and online stores, and also sells gift cards redeemable iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store and iBooks Store for the purchase digital content and software. The Company records deferred revenue upon the sale the card, which relieved upon redemption the card the customer. Revenue from AppleCare service and support contracts deferred and recognized over the service coverage periods. AppleCare service and support contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources and diagnostic tools offered under the Company\x92 standard limited warranty. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded. For the Company\x92 other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Revenue recorded net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Revenue Recognition for Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product\x92 functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product\x92 essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94) and (iii) best estimate selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For multi-element arrangements accounted for accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based the VSOE each element, and VSOE does not exist revenue recognized when elements lacking VSOE are delivered. For sales qualifying versions iPhone, iPad and iPod touch (\x93iOS devices\x94), Mac, Apple Watch and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time time provide future unspecified software upgrades the device\x92 essential software and non-software services free charge. The Company has identified three deliverables regularly included arrangements involving the sale these devices. The first deliverable, which represents the substantial portion the allocated sales price, the hardware and software essential the functionality the hardware device delivered the time sale. The second deliverable the embedded right included with qualifying devices receive when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating the product\x92 essential software. The third deliverable the non-software services provided qualifying devices. The Company allocates revenue between these deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for these deliverables, the allocation revenue based the Company\x92 ESPs. Revenue allocated the delivered hardware and the related essential software recognized the time sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Revenue allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights and the non-software services deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided. Cost sales related delivered hardware and related essential software, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs incurred provide non-software services are recognized cost sales incurred, and engineering and sales and marketing costs are recognized operating expenses incurred. The Company\x92 process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE TPE considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable including, where applicable, prices charged the Company and market trends the pricing for similar offerings, product specific business objectives, length time particular version device has been available, estimated cost provide the non-software services and the relative ESP the upgrade rights and non-software services compared the total selling price the product. Beginning September , the Company reduced the combined ESPs for iOS devices and Mac between $ and $ reflect the increase competitive offers for similar products little cost for users, which reduces the amount the Company could reasonably charge for these deliverables standalone basis. Shipping Costs Amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are classified cost sales. Apple Inc. | Form - | Warranty Costs The Company generally provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its accrued warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Software Development Costs Research and development (\x93 & \x94) costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established and result software development costs were expensed incurred. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred and included selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. Share-based Compensation The Company recognizes expense related share-based payment transactions which receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the Company ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the Company\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. Share-based compensation cost for restricted stock and restricted stock units (\x93RSUs\x94) measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. The Company recognizes share-based compensation cost over the award\x92 requisite service period straight-line basis for time-based RSUs and graded basis for RSUs that are contingent the achievement performance conditions. The Company recognizes benefit from share-based compensation the Consolidated Statements Shareholders\x92 Equity excess tax benefit realized. addition, the Company recognizes the indirect effects share-based compensation & tax credits, foreign tax credits and domestic manufacturing deductions the Consolidated Statements Operations. Further information regarding share-based compensation can found Note , \x93Benefit Plans.\x94 Income Taxes The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets and liabilities are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon settlement. See Note , \x93Income Taxes\x94 for additional information. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the potentially dilutive securities had been issued. Potentially dilutive securities include outstanding stock options, shares purchased under the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan, unvested restricted stock and unvested RSUs. The dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the computation basic and diluted earnings per share for , and (net income millions and shares thousands): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities whose effect would have been antidilutive are excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company\x92 marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments the time purchase and reevaluates the classifications each balance sheet date. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date. Marketable debt securities with maturities months less are classified short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. Marketable equity securities, including mutual funds, are classified either short-term long-term based the nature each security and its availability for use current operations. The Company\x92 marketable debt and equity securities are carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) shareholders\x92 equity, with the exception unrealized losses believed other-than-temporary which are reported earnings the current period. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component AOCI shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument, any, recognized earnings the current period. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For options designated cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, both the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item are recognized earnings the current period. For derivative instruments and foreign currency debt that hedge the exposure changes foreign currency exchange rates used for translation the net investment foreign operation and that are designated net investment hedge, the net gain loss the effective portion the derivative instrument reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward exchange contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this forward carry component are recognized earnings the current period. Derivatives that not qualify hedges are adjusted fair value through earnings the current period. Apple Inc. | Form - | Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors, including historical experience, age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect the customers\x92 ability pay. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method and net realizable value. Any adjustments reduce the cost inventories their net realizable value are recognized earnings the current period. September , and September , , the Company\x92 inventories consist primarily finished goods. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building; between one five years for machinery and equipment, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; and the shorter lease terms ten years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from three five years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion during , and , respectively. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant and equipment, inventory component prepayments and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amounts future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant and equipment, inventory component prepayments and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair value. The Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, rather such assets are required tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the assets may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests the fourth quarter each year. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges related goodwill indefinite lived intangible assets during , and . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. and , the Company\x92 goodwill was primarily allocated the Americas and Europe reporting units. The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. The Company typically amortizes its acquired intangible assets with definite useful lives over periods from three seven years. Fair Value Measurements The Company applies fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such risks inherent valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value estimated applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level \x96 Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level \x96 Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level \x96 Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimate assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company\x92 valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and certain marketable equity securities were derived from quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value the Company\x92 debt instruments and all other financial instruments, all which have counterparties with high credit ratings, were valued based quoted market prices model driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. accordance with the fair value accounting requirements, companies may choose measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items fair value. The Company has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments. Foreign Currency Translation and Remeasurement The Company translates the assets and liabilities its non- . dollar functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are recognized foreign currency translation included AOCI shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Note \x96 Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables show the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities\x92 adjusted cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value significant investment category recorded cash and cash equivalents short- long-term marketable securities September , and September , ( millions): Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Level : Money market funds , , , Mutual funds , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , Level : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , . agency securities , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , , , , Commercial paper , , , , Corporate securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( , ) , , , , Total $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Level : Money market funds , , , Mutual funds , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , Level : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , . agency securities , ( ) , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , , , , , Commercial paper Corporate securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , , Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , The Company may sell certain its marketable securities prior their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited , anticipation credit deterioration and duration management. The maturities the Company\x92 long-term marketable securities generally range from one five years. September , , the Company considers the declines market value its marketable securities investment portfolio temporary nature and does not consider any its investments other-than-temporarily impaired. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy generally requires investments investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating investment for other-than-temporary impairment the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, changes market interest rates and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell the investment before recovery the investment\x92 cost basis. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company may use derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign currency and interest rate risk expected future cash flows, net investments certain foreign subsidiaries and certain existing assets and liabilities. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign currency exchange interest rates. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, certain the Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency the . dollar may hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue, and subsidiaries whose functional currency not the . dollar and who sell local currencies may hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currencies. The Company may enter into forward contracts, option contracts other instruments manage this risk and may designate these instruments cash flow hedges. The Company typically hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. help protect the net investment foreign operation from adverse changes foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the changes the carrying amounts these investments due fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. addition, the Company may use non-derivative financial instruments, such its foreign currency-denominated debt, economic hedges its net investments certain foreign subsidiaries. both these cases, the Company designates these instruments net investment hedges. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company may also enter into non-designated foreign currency contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. The Company may enter into interest rate swaps, options, other instruments manage interest rate risk. These instruments may offset portion changes income expense, changes fair value the Company\x92 term debt investments. The Company designates these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. The Company\x92 hedged interest rate transactions September , are expected recognized within years. Cash Flow Hedges The effective portions cash flow hedges are recorded AOCI until the hedged item recognized earnings. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges foreign currency revenue are recognized component net sales the same period the related revenue recognized, and deferred gains and losses related cash flow hedges inventory purchases are recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges interest income expense are recognized other income/(expense), net the same period the related income expense recognized. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing cash flow hedges are recognized other income/(expense), net. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent two-month time period. Deferred gains and losses AOCI associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified immediately into other income/(expense), net. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are reflected other income/(expense), net unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. Net Investment Hedges The effective portions net investment hedges are recorded other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94) part the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing net investment hedges are recognized other income/(expense), net. Fair Value Hedges Gains and losses related changes fair value hedges are recognized earnings along with corresponding loss gain related the change value the underlying hedged item. Non-Designated Derivatives Derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments are adjusted fair value through earnings the financial statement line item which the derivative relates. The Company records all derivatives the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The Company\x92 accounting treatment for these derivative instruments based its hedge designation. The following tables show the Company\x92 derivative instruments gross fair value September , and September , ( millions): Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Interest rate contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Interest rate contracts $ $ $ Apple Inc. | Form - | Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Interest rate contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ ( ) The fair value derivative assets measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) The fair value derivative liabilities measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded accrued expenses the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table shows the pre-tax gains and losses the Company\x92 derivative and non-derivative instruments designated cash flow, net investment and fair value hedges OCI and the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Gains/(Losses) recognized OCI \x96 effective portion: Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , $ Interest rate contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ , $ Net investment hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Foreign currency debt ( ) Total $ $ $ Gains/(Losses) reclassified from AOCI into net income \x96 effective portion: Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ ( ) $ Interest rate contracts ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ Gains/(Losses) derivative instruments: Fair value hedges: Interest rate contracts $ $ $ Gains/(Losses) related hedged items: Fair value hedges: Interest rate contracts $ ( ) $ ( ) $ The following table shows the notional amounts the Company\x92 outstanding derivative instruments and credit risk amounts associated with outstanding unsettled derivative instruments September , and September , ( millions): Notional Amount Credit Risk Amount Notional Amount Credit Risk Amount Instruments designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , $ , $ , Interest rate contracts $ , $ $ , $ Instruments not designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ Apple Inc. | Form - | The notional amounts for outstanding derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding and not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss derivative instruments that are outstanding unsettled all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency interest rates each respective date. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time currency and interest rates change. Although the table above reflects the notional and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 derivative instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which are designed reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received posted when the net fair value certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities their gross fair values its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The net cash collateral received the Company related derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $ billion September , and $ billion September , . Under master netting arrangements with the respective counterparties the Company\x92 derivative contracts, the Company allowed net settle transactions with single net amount payable one party the other. September , and September , , the potential effects these rights set-off associated with the Company\x92 derivative contracts, including the effects collateral, would reduction both derivative assets and derivative liabilities $ billion and $ billion, respectively, resulting net derivative liabilities $ million and $ million, respectively. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, value-added resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. September , , the Company had one customer that represented % more total trade receivables, which accounted for %. September , , the Company had two customers that represented % more total trade receivables, one which accounted for % and the other %. The Company\x92 cellular network carriers accounted for % and % trade receivables September , and September , , respectively. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. Vendor non-trade receivables from three the Company\x92 vendors accounted for %, % and % total vendor non-trade receivables September , and three the Company\x92 vendors accounted for %, % and % total vendor non-trade receivables September , . Note \x96 Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company\x92 consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Property, Plant and Equipment, Net Land and buildings $ , $ , Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Total property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Other Non-Current Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Other Income/(Expense), Net The following table shows the detail other income/(expense), net for , and ( millions): Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , $ $ , Note \x96 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets July , , the Company completed the acquisitions Beats Music, LLC, which offers subscription streaming music service, and Beats Electronics, LLC, which makes Beats ® headphones, speakers and audio software (collectively, \x93Beats\x94). The total purchase price consideration for these acquisitions was $ billion, which consisted primarily cash, which $ billion was allocated goodwill, $ million acquired intangible assets and $ million net liabilities assumed. Concurrent with the close the acquisitions, the Company repaid $ million existing Beats outstanding debt third-party creditors. conjunction with the Beats acquisitions, the Company issued approximately million shares its common stock certain former equity holders Beats. The restricted stock was valued approximately $ million based the Company\x92 common stock the acquisition date. The majority these shares, valued approximately $ million, will vest over time based continued employment with Apple. The Company also completed various other business acquisitions during for aggregate cash consideration, net cash acquired, $ million, which $ million was allocated goodwill, $ million acquired intangible assets and $ million net liabilities assumed. The Company\x92 acquired intangible assets with definite useful lives primarily consist patents and licenses and are amortized over periods typically from three seven years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances September , and September , ( millions): Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Definite-lived and amortizable acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Indefinite-lived and non-amortizable acquired intangible assets Total acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ billion, $ billion and $ million , and , respectively. September , , the remaining weighted-average amortization period for acquired intangible assets years. The expected annual amortization expense related acquired intangible assets September , , follows ( millions): $ , , Thereafter Total $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Note \x96 Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for , and , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred , , , , , , State: Current , , Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) , Foreign: Current , , , Deferred ( , ) ( ) ( ) , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pre-tax earnings $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability undistributed earnings that the Company does not intend indefinitely reinvested outside the . Substantially all the Company\x92 undistributed international earnings intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . were generated subsidiaries organized Ireland, which has statutory tax rate %. September , , . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability related these temporary differences estimated $ billion. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for , and , follows (dollars millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Domestic production activities deduction ( ) ( ) ( ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company\x92 income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For stock options, the Company receives income tax benefit calculated the tax effect the difference between the fair market value the stock issued the time the exercise and the exercise price. For RSUs, the Company receives income tax benefit upon the award\x92 vesting equal the tax effect the underlying stock\x92 fair market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from equity awards $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively, which were reflected increases common stock. Apple Inc. | Form - | September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ , $ , Basis capital assets and investments , Deferred revenue , , Deferred cost sharing Share-based compensation Unrealized losses Other Total deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance $ , , Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings foreign subsidiaries , , Other Total deferred tax liabilities , , Net deferred tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. Uncertain Tax Positions Tax positions are evaluated two-step process. The Company first determines whether more likely than not that tax position will sustained upon examination. tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold then measured determine the amount benefit recognize the financial statements. The tax position measured the largest amount benefit that greater than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not expected result payment receipt cash within one year non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ billion, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. The aggregate changes the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for , and , follows ( millions): Beginning Balance $ , $ , $ , Increases related tax positions taken during prior year , , Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year , Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( ) ( ) ( ) Decreases related expiration statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending Balance $ , $ , $ , The Company includes interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ billion and $ million, respectively, which classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. connection with tax matters, the Company recognized interest and penalty expense , and $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. The . Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) currently examining the years through , and all years prior are closed. addition, the Company subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Although timing the resolution and closure audits not certain, the Company does not believe reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits would materially change the next months. June , , the European Commission issued opening decision initiating formal investigation against Ireland for alleged state aid the Company. The opening decision concerns the allocation profits for taxation purposes the Irish branches two subsidiaries the Company. The Company believes the European Commission\x92 assertions are without merit. the European Commission were conclude against Ireland, the European Commission could require Ireland recover from the Company past taxes covering period years reflective the disallowed state aid. While such amount could material, September , the Company unable estimate the impact. Note \x96 Debt Commercial Paper , the Board Directors authorized the Company issue unsecured short-term promissory notes (\x93Commercial Paper\x94) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company intends use net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , and September , , the Company had $ billion and $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, respectively, with weighted-average interest rate % and %, respectively, and maturities generally less than nine months. The following table provides summary cash flows associated with the issuance and maturities Commercial Paper for and ( millions): Maturities less than days: Proceeds from (repayments ) commercial paper, net $ , $ , Maturities greater than days: Proceeds from commercial paper , , Repayments commercial paper ( , ) ( ) Maturities greater than days, net ( , ) , Total change commercial paper, net $ , $ , Long-Term Debt September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the \x93Notes\x94). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations, and interest payable arrears, quarterly for the . dollar-denominated and Australian dollar-denominated floating-rate notes, semi-annually for the . dollar-denominated, Australian dollar-denominated, British pound-denominated and Japanese yen-denominated fixed-rate notes and annually for the euro-denominated and Swiss franc-denominated fixed-rate notes. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table provides summary the Company\x92 term debt September , and September , : Maturities Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes \x96 $ , % \x96 % $ , % \x96 % Fixed-rate % \x96 % notes \x96 , % \x96 % , % \x96 % debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes \x96 , % \x96 % , % \x96 % Fixed-rate % \x96 % notes \x96 , % \x96 % , % \x96 % First quarter euro-denominated debt issuance \x80 billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Second quarter debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes % Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Second quarter Swiss franc-denominated debt issuance SFr1 billion: Fixed-rate % notes % Fixed-rate % notes % Third quarter debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes % Floating-rate notes % Fixed-rate % notes % Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Third quarter Japanese yen-denominated debt issuance ¥ billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % Fourth quarter British pound-denominated debt issuance £ billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes % Fourth quarter Australian dollar-denominated debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes % Fixed-rate % notes % Fixed-rate % notes % Fourth quarter euro-denominated debt issuance \x80 billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % Fixed-rate % notes , % Total term debt , , Unamortized discount ( ) ( ) Hedge accounting fair value adjustments Less: Current portion long-term debt ( , ) Total long-term debt $ , $ , manage foreign currency risk associated with the euro-denominated notes issued the first quarter and the British pound-denominated, Australian dollar-denominated and euro-denominated notes issued the fourth quarter , the Company entered into currency swaps with aggregate notional amount $ billion, $ billion, $ billion and $ billion, respectively, which effectively converted these notes . dollar-denominated notes. Apple Inc. | Form - | manage interest rate risk the . dollar-denominated fixed-rate notes issued the second quarter and maturing and , the Company entered into interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amount $ billion. manage interest rate risk the . dollar-denominated fixed-rate notes issued the third quarter and maturing , , and , the Company entered into interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amount $ billion. These interest rate swaps effectively converted the fixed interest rates the . dollar-denominated notes floating interest rate. September , , ¥ billion the Japanese yen-denominated notes was designated hedge the foreign currency exposure its net investment foreign operation. The foreign currency transaction gain loss the Japanese yen-denominated debt designated hedge recorded OCI part the cumulative translation adjustment. September , , the carrying value the debt designated net investment hedge was $ billion. For further discussion regarding the Company\x92 use derivative instruments see the Derivative Financial Instruments section Note , \x93Financial Instruments.\x94 The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest the Notes, amortization the discount and, applicable, adjustments related hedging. The Company recognized $ million, $ million and $ million interest expense its term debt for , and , respectively. The future principal payments for the Company\x92 Notes September , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total term debt $ , September , and September , , the fair value the Company\x92 Notes, based Level inputs, was $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Note \x96 Shareholders\x92 Equity Dividends The Company declared and paid cash dividends per share during the periods presented follows: Dividends Per Share Amount ( millions) : Fourth quarter $ $ , Third quarter , Second quarter , First quarter , Total cash dividends declared and paid $ $ , : Fourth quarter $ $ , Third quarter , Second quarter , First quarter , Total cash dividends declared and paid $ $ , Future dividends are subject declaration the Board Directors. Apple Inc. | Form - | Share Repurchase Program the third quarter , the Company\x92 Board Directors increased the share repurchase authorization $ billion the Company\x92 common stock, which $ billion had been utilized September , . The Company\x92 share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94). The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into accelerated share repurchase arrangements (\x93ASRs\x94) with financial institutions. exchange for -front payments, the financial institutions deliver shares the Company\x92 common stock during the purchase periods each ASR. The total number shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average repurchase price paid per share, determined the end the applicable purchase period each ASR based the volume weighted-average price the Company\x92 common stock during that period. The shares received are retired the periods they are delivered, and the -front payments are accounted for reduction shareholders\x92 equity the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheets the periods the payments are made. The Company reflects the ASRs repurchase common stock the period delivered for purposes calculating earnings per share and forward contracts indexed its own common stock. The ASRs met all the applicable criteria for equity classification, and therefore were not accounted for derivative instruments. The following table shows the Company\x92 ASR activity and related information during the years ended September , and September , : Purchase Period End Date Number Shares ( thousands) Average Repurchase Price Per Share ASR Amount ( millions) May ASR July , ( ) $ $ , August ASR February , ( ) $ $ , January ASR December , $ $ , April ASR March , $ $ , ( ) Includes million shares delivered and retired the beginning the purchase period, which began the third quarter and million shares delivered and retired the end the purchase period, which concluded the fourth quarter . ( ) Includes million shares delivered and retired the beginning the purchase period, which began the fourth quarter , million net shares delivered and retired the first quarter and million shares delivered and retired the end the purchase period, which concluded the second quarter . Additionally, the Company repurchased shares its common stock the open market, which were retired upon repurchase, during the periods presented follows: Number Shares ( thousands) Average Repurchase Price Per Share Amount ( millions) : Fourth quarter , $ $ , Third quarter , $ , Second quarter , $ , First quarter , $ , Total open market common stock repurchases , $ , : Fourth quarter , $ $ , Third quarter , $ , Second quarter , $ , First quarter , $ , Total open market common stock repurchases , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Note \x96 Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and OCI. OCI refers revenue, expenses, and gains and losses that under GAAP are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 OCI consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges and unrealized gains and losses marketable securities classified available-for-sale. The following table shows the pre-tax amounts reclassified from AOCI into the Consolidated Statements Operations, and the associated financial statement line item, for and ( millions): Comprehensive Income Components Financial Statement Line Item Unrealized (gains)/losses derivative instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Revenue $ ( , ) $ Cost sales ( , ) ( ) Other income/(expense), net Interest rate contracts Other income/(expense), net ( , ) Unrealized (gains)/losses marketable securities Other income/(expense), net ( ) Total amounts reclassified from AOCI $ ( , ) $ ( ) The following table shows the changes AOCI component for ( millions): Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Unrealized Gains Losses Derivative Instruments Unrealized Gains Losses Marketable Securities Total Balance September , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) before reclassifications ( ) , , Amounts reclassified from AOCI ( ) ( ) Tax effect ( ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) , , Balance September , ( ) , ( ) , Other comprehensive income/(loss) before reclassifications ( ) , ( ) , Amounts reclassified from AOCI ( , ) ( , ) Tax effect Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( , ) Balance September , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Apple Inc. | Form - | Note \x96 Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan the second quarter , shareholders approved the Employee Stock Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94) and terminated the Company\x92 authority grant new awards under the Employee Stock Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94). The Plan provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers, and permits the granting RSUs, stock grants, performance-based awards, stock options and stock appreciation rights, well cash bonus awards. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over four years, based continued employment, and are settled upon vesting shares the Company\x92 common stock one-for-one basis. Each share issued with respect RSUs granted under the Plan reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares. RSUs cancelled and shares withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations increase the number shares available for grant under the Plan utilizing factor two times the number RSUs cancelled shares withheld. Currently, all RSUs granted under the Plan have dividend equivalent rights (\x93DERs\x94), which entitle holders RSUs the same dividend value per share holders common stock. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. Upon approval the Plan, the Company reserved million shares plus the number shares remaining that were reserved but not issued under the Plan. Shares subject outstanding awards under the Plan that expire, are cancelled otherwise terminate, are withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations with respect RSUs, will also available for awards under the Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Employee Stock Plan The Plan shareholder approved plan that provided for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers. The Plan permitted the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, RSUs, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights and performance-based awards. Options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years, based continued employment, with either annual, semi-annual quarterly vesting. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over two four years, based continued employment and are settled upon vesting shares the Company\x92 common stock one-for-one basis. All RSUs, other than RSUs held the Chief Executive Officer, granted under the Plan have DERs. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. the second quarter , the Company terminated the authority grant new awards under the Plan. Director Stock Plan The Director Stock Plan (the \x93Director Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company\x92 non-employee directors, ( ) provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board Directors and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board Directors prospectively change the relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company\x92 common stock subject these grants without shareholder approval. Each share issued with respect RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares. The Director Plan expires November , . All RSUs granted under the Director Plan are entitled DERs. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the fourth quarter , Section officers Timothy . Cook, Angela Ahrendts, Luca Maestri, Daniel Riccio, Philip Schiller and Jeffrey Williams had equity trading plans place accordance with Rule 10b5- ( )( ) under the Exchange Act. equity trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock, including shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee and director equity plans. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the \x93Purchase Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan under which substantially all employees may purchase the Company\x92 common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning the end six-month offering periods. employee\x92 payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee\x92 compensation and employees may not purchase more than $ , stock during any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Apple Inc. | Form - | ( ) Plan The Company\x92 ( ) Plan deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the ( ) Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the IRS annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 eligible earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the ( ) Plan were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Restricted Stock Units summary the Company\x92 RSU activity and related information for , and , follows: Number RSUs ( thousands) Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Per Share Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. The majority RSUs that vested , and were net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees\x92 minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million, million and million for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their respective vesting dates determined the Company\x92 closing stock price. Total payments for the employees\x92 tax obligations taxing authorities were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively, and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. These net-share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. Stock Options The Company had million stock options outstanding September , , with weighted-average exercise price per share $ and weighted-average remaining contractual term years, substantially all which are exercisable. The aggregate intrinsic value the stock options outstanding September , was $ million, which represents the value the Company\x92 closing stock price the last trading day the period excess the weighted-average exercise price multiplied the number options outstanding. Total intrinsic value options time exercise was $ million, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | Share-based Compensation The following table shows summary the share-based compensation expense included the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development , , Selling, general and administrative , , Total share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , The income tax benefit related share-based compensation expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ million for , and , respectively. September , , the total unrecognized compensation cost related outstanding stock options, RSUs and restricted stock was $ billion, which the Company expects recognize over weighted-average period years. Note \x96 Commitments and Contingencies Accrued Warranty and Indemnification The following table shows changes the Company\x92 accrued warranties and related costs for , and ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , Cost warranty claims ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accruals for product warranty , , , Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss with respect indemnification end-users its operating system application software for infringement third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record liability for infringement costs related indemnification September , September , . September , the Company introduced the iPhone Upgrade Program, which available customers who purchase iPhone and Plus one its . physical retail stores and activate the purchased iPhone with one the four national carriers. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right trade that iPhone for new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. One the conditions this program requires the customer finance the initial purchase price the iPhone with third-party lender. Upon exercise the trade- right and purchase new iPhone, the Company satisfies the customer\x92 outstanding balance due the third-party lender the original device. The Company accounts for the trade- right guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net the fair value such right with subsequent changes the guarantee liability recognized within revenue. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, number components are currently obtained from single limited sources. addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers concentrated the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturers for many the Company\x92 products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods days. Other Off-Balance Sheet Commitments Operating Leases The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company had total retail stores. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ Thereafter , Total $ , Other Commitments The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and testing finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts and open orders based projected demand information. Where appropriate, the purchases are applied inventory component prepayments that are outstanding with the respective supplier. September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments $ billion. Apple Inc. | Form - | addition the commitments mentioned above, the Company had other off-balance sheet obligations $ billion September , that consisted commitments acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related inventory prepayments, advertising, licensing, & , internet and telecommunications services, energy and other obligations. Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and that have not been fully adjudicated, certain which are discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors\x94 and Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings.\x94 the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. . Samsung Electronics ., Ltd, . August , , jury returned verdict awarding the Company $ billion its lawsuit against Samsung Electronics ., Ltd and affiliated parties the United States District Court, Northern District California, San Jose Division. March , , the District Court entered final judgment favor the Company the amount approximately $ million. May , , the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed part, and reversed part, the decision the District Court. result, the Court Appeals ordered entry final judgment damages the amount approximately $ million, with the District Court determine supplemental damages and interest, well damages owed for products subject the reversal part. Because the ruling remains subject further proceedings, the Company has not recognized the award its results operations. Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable operating segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. The Greater China segment includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Rest Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company\x92 other reportable operating segments. Although each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, they are managed separately better align with the location the Company\x92 customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies.\x94 The Company evaluates the performance its reportable operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers and sales through the Company\x92 retail stores located those geographic locations. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the reportable operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such & , corporate marketing expenses, certain share-based compensation expenses, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows information reportable operating segment for , and ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Greater China: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Rest Asia Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Research and development expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other corporate expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , The . and China were the only countries that accounted for more than % the Company\x92 net sales , and . There was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales , . Net sales for , and and long-lived assets September , and September , are follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , ( ) China includes Hong Kong. Long-lived assets located China consist primarily product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and assets related retail stores and related infrastructure. Apple Inc. | Form - | Net sales product for , and are follows ( millions): Net Sales Product: iPhone ( ) $ , $ , $ , iPad ( ) , , , Mac ( ) , , , Services ( ) , , , Other Products ( )( ) , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes deferrals and amortization related software upgrade rights and non-software services. ( ) Includes revenue from the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, iBooks Store, Apple Music, AppleCare, Apple Pay, licensing and other services. ( ) Includes sales Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, iPod and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. Note \x96 Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables show summary the Company\x92 quarterly financial information for each the four quarters and ( millions, except per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter : Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ) : Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter : Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ) : Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders\x92 equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (\x93the COSO criteria\x94). Apple Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Apple Inc. and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94) were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94). The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the Company\x92 assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP. The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter , which were identified connection with management\x92 evaluation required paragraph ( ) rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Not applicable. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Directors, Corporate Governance and Executive Officers\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (the \x93SEC\x94) within days after September , connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company\x92 annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. The Company has code ethics, \x93Business Conduct: The way business worldwide,\x94 that applies all employees, including the Company\x92 principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer, well the members the Board Directors the Company. The code available investor apple com corporate-governance cfm. The Company intends disclose any changes , waivers from, this code posting such information the same website filing Form - , each case the extent such disclosure required rules the SEC the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Executive Compensation\x94 and under the subheadings \x93Board Oversight Risk Management,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,\x94 \x93Compensation Directors\x94 and \x93Director Compensation- \x94 under the heading \x93Directors, Corporate Governance and Executive Officers\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item set forth under the subheadings \x93Board Committees\x94, \x93Review, Approval Ratification Transactions with Related Persons\x94 and \x93Transactions with Related Persons\x94 under the heading \x93Directors, Corporate Governance and Executive Officers\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this Item set forth under the subheadings \x93Fees Paid Auditors\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm\x94 under the proposal \x93Ratification Appointment Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included this Form - . ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - The information required this Section ( )( ) Item set forth the exhibit index that follows the Signatures page this Form - . Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}