{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates, and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97\x93Risk Factors.\x94 Amazon com, Inc. was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon com opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July and offers Earth\x92 Biggest Selection. seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets: consumers, sellers, and enterprises. addition, generate revenue through other marketing and promotional services, such online advertising, and -branded credit card agreements. have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Segment Information.\x94 See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Results Operations\x97Supplemental Information\x94 for supplemental information about our net sales. Consumers serve consumers through our retail websites, and focus selection, price, and convenience. design our websites enable millions unique products sold and third parties across dozens product categories. also manufacture and sell the Kindle -reader. strive offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers, including through membership Amazon Prime, and improve our operating efficiencies that can continue lower prices for our customers. also provide easy- -use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through the . and international fulfillment centers and warehouses that operate, through -sourced and outsourced arrangements certain countries, and through digital delivery. operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented -sourced arrangements. See Item Part , \x93Properties.\x94 Sellers offer programs that enable sellers sell their products our websites and their own branded websites and fulfill orders through . are not the seller record these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, revenue share fees, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Enterprises serve developers and enterprises all sizes through Amazon Web Services (\x93AWS\x94), which provides access technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type business. Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers, and producers our products; ( ) other online -commerce and mobile -commerce sites, including sites that sell distribute digital content; ( ) number indirect competitors, including media companies, web portals, comparison shopping websites, and web search engines, either directly collaboration with other retailers; ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website development, fulfillment, and customer service; ( ) companies that provide infrastructure web services other information storage computing services products; and ( ) companies that design, manufacture, market, sell digital media devices. believe that the principal competitive factors our retail businesses include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment. Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise services include the quality, speed, and reliability our services and tools. Many our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Other companies also may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered, applied for the registration , number . and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December . recognized %, %, and % our annual revenue during the fourth quarter , , and . Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel supplement our workforce, particularly seasonal basis. Although have works councils and statutory employee representation obligations certain countries, our employees are not represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com and encourage investors use way easily finding information about . promptly make available this website, free charge, the reports that file furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94), corporate governance information (including our Code Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases and social media postings. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors January , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Jeffrey . Blackburn Senior Vice President, Business Development Sebastian . Gunningham Senior Vice President, Seller Services Andrew . Jassy Senior Vice President, Web Services Steven Kessel Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media Marc . Onetto Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, International Retail Shelley . Reynolds Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer . Brian Valentine Senior Vice President, Ecommerce Platform Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, North America Retail . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President the Company from founding until June and again from October the present. Jeffrey . Blackburn. . Blackburn has served Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April . From June April , was Vice President, Business Development. Sebastian . Gunningham. . Gunningham has served Senior Vice President, Seller Services, since joining Amazon com March . Prior joining Amazon com, . Gunningham was President First Data Utilities from August February , following First Data\x92 acquisition Peace Software, Inc., where was Chief Executive Officer from February August . Andrew . Jassy. . Jassy has served Senior Vice President, Web Services, since April . From January April , was Vice President, Web Services. Steven Kessel. . Kessel has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Digital Media, since April . From April April , was Vice President, Digital. Marc . Onetto. . Onetto has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, since joining Amazon com December . Prior joining Amazon com, . Onetto was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Solectron Corporation, electronics manufacturing and technology company, from June June . Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, International Retail, since January . From November December , . Piacentini served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing. Shelley . Reynolds. . Reynolds has served Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April . From February April , she was Vice President, Finance and Controller. Prior joining Amazon com, . Reynolds was partner Deloitte & Touche LLP since . Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since joining Amazon com October . . Brian Valentine. . Valentine has served Senior Vice President, Ecommerce Platform, since joining Amazon com September . Prior joining Amazon com, . Valentine held various positions with Microsoft Corporation, including Senior Vice President, Windows Core Operating System Division, from January September . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, North America Retail, since January . From January December , was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since July . Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director, Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown Visiting Scholar and Advisor the Provost, University Southern California William . Gordon Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Alain Monié Chief Executive Officer, APRIL Pte. Ltd. Jonathan . Rubinstein Senior Vice President and General Manager, Palm Global Business Unit, Hewlett-Packard Company Thomas . Ryder Retired, Former Chairman, Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer Chair, Board Regents, Smithsonian Institution ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could materially adversely affected. addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many these risks. Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including retail, -commerce services, digital content and digital media devices, and web services. Many our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition may intensify our competitors enter into business combinations alliances and established companies other market segments expand into our market segments. addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web services, and digital, may increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and increased competition may reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion Places Significant Strain our Management, Operational, Financial and Other Resources are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure support our retail and services businesses. This expansion increases the complexity our business and places significant strain our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. may not able manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies and Geographic Regions Subjects Additional Business, Legal, Financial and Competitive Risks may have limited experience our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our new offerings. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and may subject claims customers these offerings experience service disruptions failures other quality issues. addition, profitability, any, our newer activities may lower than our older activities, and may not successful enough these newer activities recoup our investments them. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Growth Rate may not able accurately forecast our growth rate. base our expense levels and investment plans sales estimates. significant portion our expenses and investments fixed, and may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products and services offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions worldwide. softening demand, whether caused changes customer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due risks described elsewhere this section and the following: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability retain and expand our network sellers; \x95 our ability offer products favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction competitive websites, products, services, price decreases, improvements; \x95 changes usage adoption rates the Internet, -commerce, digital media devices and web services, including non- . markets; \x95 timing, effectiveness, and costs expansion and upgrades our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the success our geographic, service, and product line expansions; \x95 the outcomes legal proceedings and claims; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping, continue reduce product prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits our customers; \x95 the extent which invest technology and content, fulfillment and other expense categories; \x95 increases the prices fuel and gasoline, well increases the prices other energy products and commodities like paper and packing supplies; \x95 the extent which operators the networks between our customers and our websites successfully charge fees grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access our online services; \x95 our ability collect amounts owed when they become due; \x95 the extent which use our services affected spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions and similar events; and \x95 terrorist attacks and armed hostilities. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments Our international activities are significant our revenues and profits, and plan further expand internationally. certain international market segments, have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages otherwise succeed. costly establish, develop and maintain international operations and websites and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not profitable sustained basis. addition risks described elsewhere this section, our international sales and operations are subject number risks, including: \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 government regulation -commerce, other online services and electronic devices and restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization and restrictions foreign ownership; \x95 restrictions sales distribution certain products services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services and content, including uncertainty result less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution media products and enforcement intellectual property rights; \x95 business licensing certification requirements, such for imports, exports and electronic devices; \x95 limitations the repatriation and investment funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; \x95 limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; \x95 shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact cash flow; \x95 laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower levels use the Internet; \x95 lower levels consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared the .; \x95 lower levels credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty staffing, developing and managing foreign operations result distance, language and cultural differences; \x95 different employee employer relationships and the existence workers\x92 councils and labor unions; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans and taxes; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel grows, competition will intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand names. may not able hire, train, retain, and manage required personnel, which may limit our international growth. , acquired Joyo com Limited, which organized under the laws the British Virgin Islands and through People\x92 Republic China (\x93PRC\x94) entity, provides technology and services for the Joyo Amazon websites. The PRC regulates Joyo Amazon\x92 business through regulations and license requirements restricting ( ) foreign investment the Internet, retail and delivery sectors, ( ) Internet content and (iii) the sale media and other products. order meet local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, Joyo Amazon\x92 business operated PRC companies that are indirectly owned, either wholly partially, PRC nationals. Although believe Joyo Amazon\x92 structure complies with existing PRC laws, involves unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation PRC laws and regulations, and possible that the PRC government will ultimately take view contrary ours. Joyo Amazon (including its subsidiary and affiliates) were found violation any existing future PRC laws regulations interpretations those laws and regulations were change, the business could subject fines and other financial penalties, have its licenses revoked forced shut down entirely. addition, Joyo Amazon were unable enforce its contractual relationships with respect management and control its business, might unable continue operate the business. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not adequately predict customer demand otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment centers successfully, could result excess insufficient inventory fulfillment capacity, result increased costs, impairment charges, both, harm our business other ways. failure optimize inventory will increase our net shipping cost requiring long-zone partial shipments. Orders from several our websites are fulfilled primarily from single location, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. continue add fulfillment and warehouse capability add new businesses with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating becomes more challenging. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. There can assurance that will able operate our network effectively. rely limited number shipping companies deliver inventory and completed orders our customers. are not able negotiate acceptable terms with these companies they experience performance problems other difficulties, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. addition, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders customers also may negatively affected inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism, acts God and similar factors. Third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality and future procurement their services. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales occur during our fourth quarter. not stock restock popular products sufficient amounts such that fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce profitability. may experience increase our net shipping cost due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased holiday demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service -sourcers may unable meet the seasonal demand. also face risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment center optimization and inventory. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable December . Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months the year, resulting corresponding decline our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships provide -commerce services other businesses through our seller programs and other commercial agreements, strategic alliances and business relationships. Under these agreements, provide technology, fulfillment and other services, well enable sellers offer products services through our websites and power their websites. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may limit the agreements are able enter into and our ability integrate and deliver services under them. fail implement, maintain, and develop the components these commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing third-party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements partially dependent the volume the other company\x92 sales. Therefore, the other company\x92 offering not successful, the compensation receive may lower than expected the agreement may terminated. Moreover, may not able enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. also may subject claims from businesses which provide these services are unsuccessful implementing, maintaining developing these services. our agreements terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. may the future enter into amendments less favorable terms encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future -commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment other relationships; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and \x95 difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments have acquired and invested number companies, and may acquire invest enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 problems retaining key personnel; \x95 additional operating losses and expenses the businesses acquired which invested; \x95 the potential impairment tangible assets, such inventory, and intangible assets and goodwill acquired the acquisitions; \x95 the potential impairment customer and other relationships the company acquired which invested our own customers result any integration operations; \x95 the difficulty incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related such integration; \x95 the difficulty integrating new company\x92 accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems permit effective management, and the lack control such integration delayed not implemented; \x95 the difficulty implementing companies acquire the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for larger public company; \x95 potential unknown liabilities associated with company acquire which invest; and \x95 for foreign transactions, additional risks related the integration operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. result future acquisitions mergers, might need issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related intangible assets, any which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments other-than-temporary declines fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our international websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. have expanded our international operations, our exposure exchange rate fluctuations has increased. also hold cash equivalents and marketable securities primarily Euros, Japanese Yen, and British Pounds. the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, CEO, and Chairman. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. Face Risks Related System Interruption and Lack Redundancy experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable slow respond and prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. are unable continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps improve the efficiency our systems, could cause system interruptions delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage compensate for any related losses. Any these events could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. Face Significant Inventory Risk addition risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment center and inventory optimization and third parties, are exposed significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes consumer tastes with respect our products and other factors. endeavor accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products manufacture and sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory components are ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling manufacturing new product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition certain types inventory components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. may not able discover determine the extent any unauthorized use our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps take protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights prevent third parties from infringing misappropriating our proprietary rights. also cannot certain that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that infringe their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the payment damages. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms that are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. These risks have been amplified the increase third parties whose sole primary business assert such claims. Our digital content offerings depend part effective digital rights management technology control access digital content. the digital rights management technology that use compromised otherwise malfunctions, could subject claims, and content providers may unwilling include their content our service. Have Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have rapidly evolving business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly response , among other risks, the risks described elsewhere this Item , well : \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce technology companies; and \x95 transactions our common stock major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Volatility our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. Government Regulation Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, -commerce, and electronic devices. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, web services, the provision online payment services, unencumbered Internet access our services, the design and operation websites, and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply the Internet, -commerce, digital content and web services. Jurisdictions may regulate consumer- -consumer online businesses, including certain aspects our seller programs. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Taxation Risks Could Subject Liability for Past Sales and Cause Our Future Sales Decrease not collect sales other taxes shipments most our goods into most states the . Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record, and are obligated collect sales tax accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional agreements requiring similar tax collection obligations. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion them, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. Currently, . Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering adopted initiatives that could limit supersede the Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. these initiatives are successful, could required collect sales and use taxes additional states change our business practices. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for , put competitive disadvantage they not impose similar obligations all our online competitors and decrease our future sales. collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) applicable goods and services sold that are ordered our international sites. Additional foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations . successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise services could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Could Subject Additional Income Tax Liabilities are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could adversely affected earnings being lower than anticipated countries where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated countries where have higher statutory rates, changes foreign currency exchange rates, changes the valuation our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. are subject audit various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against . Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. Our Supplier Relationships Subject Number Risks have significant suppliers, including licensors, that are important our sourcing, manufacturing and any related ongoing servicing merchandise and content. not have long-term arrangements with most our suppliers guarantee availability merchandise, content, components services, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current suppliers were stop selling licensing merchandise, content, components services acceptable terms, including result one more supplier bankruptcies due poor economic conditions, may unable procure alternatives from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms, all. May Subject Risks Related Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations Our contracts with ., well state, local and foreign, government entities are subject various procurement regulations and other requirements relating their formation, administration and performance. may subject audits and investigations relating our government contracts and any violations could result various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination contract, refunding suspending payments, forfeiture profits, payment fines and suspension debarment from future government business. addition, such contracts may provide for termination the government any time, without cause. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some the products sell manufacture may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death, environmental property damage, and may require product recalls other actions. Certain third parties also sell products using our -commerce platform that may increase our exposure product liability claims, such these sellers not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our agreements with our vendors and sellers not indemnify from product liability. Are Subject Payments-Related Risks accept payments using variety methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift certificates, direct debit from customer\x92 bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. offer new payment options our customers, may subject additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. rely third parties provide payment processing services, including the processing credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing, and could disrupt our business these companies become unwilling unable provide these services . are also subject payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change reinterpreted make difficult impossible for comply. fail comply with these rules requirements, may subject fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, facilitate other types online payments, and our business and operating results could adversely affected. also offer -branded credit card programs that represent significant component our services revenue. one more these agreements are terminated and are unable replace them similar terms, all, could adversely affect our operating results. addition, qualify money services business certain jurisdictions because enable customers keep account balances with and transfer money third parties, and because provide services third parties facilitate payments their behalf. these jurisdictions, may subject requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding, the handling transferred funds and consumer disclosures. are also subject voluntarily comply with number other laws and regulations relating money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. were found violation applicable laws regulations, could subject civil and criminal penalties forced cease our payments services business. Could Liable for Breaches Security Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect customer information and prevent fraudulent transactions, data loss and other security breaches, failure prevent mitigate such breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Could Liable for Fraudulent Unlawful Activities Sellers The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, governmental agencies could require changes the way this business conducted. Under our seller programs, may unable prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered when the products received are materially different from the sellers\x92 descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, reimburse buyers for payments certain limits these situations, and our marketplace seller sales grow, the cost this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. also may unable prevent sellers our sites through other seller sites from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner, violating the proprietary rights others, and could face civil criminal liability for unlawful activities our sellers. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties December , , operated the following facilities: Description Use Square Footage ( ) Operating Segments Lease Expirations ( ) ( thousands) Corporate office facilities , North America From through Corporate office facilities International From through Sub-total , Fulfillment and warehouse operations , North America From through Fulfillment and warehouse operations , International From through Sub-total , Data center, customer service and other North America From through Data center, customer service and other International From through Sub-total Total , ( ) Represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. lease our corporate headquarters Seattle, Washington. Additionally, lease corporate office, fulfillment and warehouse operations, data center, customer service, and other facilities, principally North America, Europe, and Asia. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x97Legal Proceedings\x94 and \x93\x97Other Contingencies.\x94 ', 'item 4. ': 'Reserved Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low per share sale prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq Global Select Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders January , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there are much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Income from operations , , Net income , Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ $ Weighted average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Cash Flow Statement: Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ December , ( millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt , , ( ) For further discussion earnings per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Results Operations\x97Non-GAAP Financial Measures.\x94 ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, the extent which owe income taxes, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks inventory management, seasonality, the degree which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many these risks. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , \x93Risk Factors.\x94 Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers . The products offered our consumer-facing websites primarily include merchandise and content have purchased for resale from vendors and those offered third party sellers, and also manufacture and sell the Kindle -reader. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory and recognize our net share revenue items sold other sellers. also offer services such AWS, fulfillment, miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, such online advertising, and -branded credit cards. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow per share. Free cash flow driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures. Increases operating income primarily result from increases sales products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives, which generally require hire additional software engineers, computer scientists, and merchandisers. increase sales products and services, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. also seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders\x92 interests. utilize restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation because believe they align the interests our shareholders and employees. measuring shareholder dilution, include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, without regard estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million and million December , and . seek reduce our variable costs per unit and work leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. See \x93Results Operations\x97Non-GAAP Financial Measures\x94 below. preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and portion our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary run our technology infrastructure and AWS; build, enhance, and add features our websites and our Kindle -reader; and build and optimize our fulfillment centers. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally increase depending the timing capacity needs, geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts available from suppliers, and reduce defects our processes. minimize growth fixed costs, seek improve process efficiencies and maintain lean culture. Because our model are able turn our inventory quickly and have cash-generating operating cycle . average our high inventory velocity means generally collect from consumers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , and for , , and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our product mix, the mix sales and other sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and for , , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since they are affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix sales other sellers, the mix suppliers, seasonality, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect balancing pricing and timing payment terms with suppliers. expect spending technology and content will increase over time add computer scientists, software engineers, and merchandising employees. seek efficiently invest several areas technology and content, including seller platforms, digital initiatives, and expansion new and existing product categories, well technology infrastructure enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiencies and support AWS. believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the improved consumer experience the Internet outside the workplace through lower-cost broadband service the home, and the advances wireless connectivity, will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people\x92 lives. are investing AWS, which provides technology services that give developers and enterprises all sizes access technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type business, and our Kindle -reader. continuing challenge build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage continued advances technology. Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends . For example, the . Dollar weakens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales, and operating expenses will higher than currencies had remained constant. Likewise, the . Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales, and operating expenses will lower than currencies had remained constant. believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long term. also believe useful evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect currency changes. addition, the remeasurement our intercompany balances can result significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. The operating cycle number days sales inventory plus number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Inventory turnover the quotient trailing-twelve-month cost sales average inventory over five quarter-ends. Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable current quarter cost sales, multiplied the number days the current quarter. For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (\x93GAAP\x94) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition inventory are inherently uncertain. measure sensitivity, for every % additional inventory valuation allowance December , would have recorded additional cost sales approximately $ million. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment annually more frequently when event occurs circumstances change that indicates that the carrying value may not recoverable. Our annual testing date October . test goodwill for impairment first comparing the book value net assets the fair value the reporting units. the fair value determined less than the book value, second step performed compute the amount impairment the difference between the estimated fair value goodwill and the carrying value. estimate the fair value the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts future cash flow are based our best estimate future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes these forecasts could significantly change the amount impairment recorded, any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance the business relative the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, triggering events were identified that required update our annual impairment test. measure sensitivity, % decrease the fair value any our reporting units December , would have had impact the carrying value our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost capital that use determine our discount rate and through our stock price that use determine our market capitalization. During times volatility, significant judgment must applied determine whether credit stock price changes are short term swing longer-term trend. measure sensitivity, prolonged % decrease from our December , closing stock price would not indicator possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation measure compensation cost for stock awards fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for awards expected vest. The fair value restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will forfeited, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. % change our estimated forfeiture rate would have had approximately $ million impact our operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rates December , and , were % and %. utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. Under this method, over % the compensation cost expensed the first year four year vesting term. The accelerated method also adds higher level sensitivity estimating forfeitures. forfeited early the life award, the forfeited amount much greater under accelerated method than under straight-line method. Income Taxes are subject income taxes both the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could adversely affected earnings being lower than anticipated countries where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated countries where have higher statutory rates, changes foreign currency exchange rates, changes the valuation our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. are subject audit various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against . Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that determination made. determine that additional portions our deferred tax assets are realizable, the majority the benefit will come from the assets associated with the stock-based compensation that was not recognized the financial statements, but was claimed the tax return. Since this compensation did not originally run through our consolidated statements operations, the benefit generated will recorded stockholders\x92 equity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Recent Accounting Pronouncements.\x94 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Cash provided (used ): Operating activities $ , $ , $ , Investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities ( ) ( ) Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow. Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, was $ billion for , compared $ billion and $ billion for and . See \x93Results Operations\x97Non-GAAP Financial Measures\x94 below for reconciliation free cash flow cash provided operating activities. The decrease free cash flow was primarily due increased capital expenditures, changes working capital, and utilization excess stock-based compensation deductions, partially offset increases operating income. The increase free cash flow primarily resulted from changes working capital, increased operating income, and increased deferred revenue. Tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented the statement cash flows financing cash inflows; accordingly, such tax benefits decline, greater amount cash classified operating cash inflow. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can volatile and are sensitive many factors, including changes working capital and the timing and magnitude capital expenditures. Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, fair value, were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, December , , , and . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion December , , , and , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided operating activities was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, and our -branded credit card agreements, offset cash payments make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related internal use software that are reflected cash used investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from customers settle quickly. Changes our operating cash flows have historically been driven primarily changes operating income and changes the components working capital, including changes receivable and payable days and inventory turns, well changes non-cash items such excess stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities, capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, and cash outlays for acquisitions, investments other companies and intellectual property rights. Cash provided (used ) investing activities was $( ) billion, $( ) billion, and $( ) billion , , and , with the variability caused primarily increased capital expenditures, increases cash paid for acquisitions, and purchases, maturities, and sales marketable securities and other investments. Capital expenditures were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investments support continued business growth, including investments technology infrastructure including AWS, additional capacity support our fulfillment operations, and, , investments corporate office space. expect this trend continue over time. Capital expenditures included $ million, $ million, and $ million for internal-use software and website development during , , and . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. , , and , made cash payments, net acquired cash, related acquisition and investment activity $ million, $ million, and $ million. Cash provided (used ) financing activities was $ million, $( ) million, and $( ) million , , and . Cash outflows from financing activities result from payments obligations related capital leases and leases accounted for financing arrangements, repayments long-term debt, and repurchases common stock. Payments obligations related capital leases and leases accounted for financing arrangements, and repayments long-term debt, were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . repurchased million shares common stock for $ million under the $ billion repurchase program authorized our Board Directors February . Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and proceeds from long-term debt. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented financing cash flows. Cash inflows (outflows) from tax benefits related stock-based compensation deductions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . , , and recorded net tax provisions $ million, $ million, and $ million. majority this provision non-cash. have current tax benefits and net operating loss carryforwards relating excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. Cash taxes paid, net refunds, were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . used substantially all our federal net operating loss carryforwards and have available federal tax credits $ million. Once use our credits, expect cash paid for taxes significantly increase. endeavor optimize our global taxes cash basis, rather than financial reporting basis. January , our Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion our common stock, which replaces the prior February repurchase authorization described above. did not repurchase any our common stock . Additionally, November and January , signed agreements acquire Quidsi, Inc. and LOVEFiLM International Limited for aggregate consideration approximately $ million, primarily cash, and the assumption debt. expect the acquisitions close , subject regulatory approvals and closing conditions. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x94 for additional discussion our principal contractual commitments, well our pledged securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $ billion December , . average, our high inventory turnover means collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , and for , , and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time affected several factors, including category expansion and changes our product mix, the mix sales and other sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Risk Factors.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that additional lines- -credit financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales Net sales information follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net Sales: North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America % % % International Consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect exchange rates: North America % % % International Consolidated Net Sales Mix: North America % % % International Consolidated % % % Sales increased %, %, and % , , and . Changes currency exchange rates positively (negatively) affected net sales $( ) million, $( ) million, and $ million for , , and . For discussion the effect sales growth exchange rates, see \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below. The North America sales growth rate was %, %, and % , , and . The sales growth each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, larger base sales faster growing categories such electronics and other general merchandise, and, , our adoption the new accounting standard update (\x93ASU\x94) - (see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94). Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, increased -stock inventory availability and increased selection product offerings, and the impact Zappos, which acquired the fourth quarter . The International sales growth rate was %, %, and % , , and . The sales growth each year primarily reflects increased unit sales and larger base sales faster growing categories such electronics and other general merchandise. Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and Amazon Prime, and increased -stock inventory availability and increased selection product offerings. Additionally, changes currency exchange rates positively (negatively) affected International net sales $( ) million, $( ) million, and $ million , , and . expect that, over time, our International segment will represent % more our consolidated net sales. Sales products marketplace sellers our websites represented %, %, and % unit sales , , and . Revenues from these sales are recorded net amount. Because focus operating profits, are largely neutral whether item sold another seller. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results follows: December , ( millions) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue ( )( ) $ , $ $ Outbound shipping costs ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net shipping cost $ ( , ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue % % % Outbound shipping costs Net shipping cost Percent Net Sales: Shipping revenue % % % Outbound shipping costs ( ) ( ) ( ) Net shipping cost ( )% ( )% ( )% ( ) Excludes amounts earned shipping activities third-party sellers where not provide the fulfillment service. ( ) Includes amounts earned from Amazon Prime membership and Fulfillment Amazon programs. expect our net cost shipping continue increase the extent our customers accept and use our free-shipping offers increasing rate, including through membership Amazon Prime; the extent our product mix shifts the electronics and other general merchandise category; the extent reduce shipping rates; and the extent use more expensive shipping methods. seek mitigate costs shipping over time part through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success. One way offer lower prices through free-shipping offers, well through membership Amazon Prime. Supplemental information about our net sales follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net Sales: North America Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) Total North America $ , $ , $ , International Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) Total International $ , $ , $ , Consolidated Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) Total consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Excluding the effect exchange rates International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated % % % ( ) Includes non-retail activities, such AWS, miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities, other seller sites, and our -branded credit card agreements. Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation follows ( millions): Year ended December , Year ended December , Year ended December , Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost Sales $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Fulfillment , ( ) , , ( ) , , ( ) , Marketing , ( ) , ( ) ( ) Technology and content , ( ) , , ( ) , , ( ) General and administrative ( ) ( ) ( ) Other operating expense (income), net \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Total operating expenses $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Percent Net Sales: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See \x93Non-GAAP Financial Measures\x94 and Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Stock-Based Compensation.\x94 Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products and content where are the seller record, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory, and recognized cost sales upon sale products our customers. The increase cost sales absolute dollars and compared the comparable prior year periods primarily due increased product and shipping costs resulting from increased sales. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each the periods presented were follows: Year Ended December , Gross Profit ( millions) $ , $ , $ , Gross Margin % % % Gross margin for remained relatively consistent with the prior year periods. believe that income from operations more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due the diversity our product categories and services. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs percentage net sales may vary due several factors, such payment processing and related transaction costs, our level productivity and accuracy, changes volume, size, and weight units received and fulfilled, the extent utilize fulfillment services provided third parties, and our ability affect customer service contacts per unit implementing improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs are higher percentage sales versus our retail sales, sales our sellers have higher fulfillment costs percent net sales. The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars and compared the comparable prior year periods primarily due variable costs corresponding with sales volume, inventory levels, and product sales mix; payment processing and related transaction costs; and costs from expanding fulfillment capacity. seek expand our fulfillment capacity accommodate greater selection and -stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales our own products well sales third parties for which provide the fulfillment services. evaluate our facility requirements necessary. Marketing direct customers our websites primarily through number targeted online marketing channels, such our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based growth sales and changes rates. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing expense. The increase marketing costs absolute dollars and compared the comparable prior year periods primarily due increased spending online marketing channels, such sponsored search programs and our Associates program, and, , television advertising. While costs associated with free shipping are not included marketing expense, view free shipping offers and Amazon Prime effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content seek efficiently invest several areas technology and content including seller platforms, digital initiatives, and expansion new and existing product categories, well technology infrastructure that can continue enhance the customer experience, improve our process efficiency and support AWS. See \x93Overview\x94 for discussion how management views advances technology and the importance innovation. The increase technology and content costs absolute dollars and compared the comparable prior year periods primarily due increases payroll and related expenses and increased spending technology infrastructure. expect these trends continue over time. For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million, $ million, and $ million costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . majority our technology costs are incurred the ., most which are allocated our North America segment. Infrastructure and other technology costs used support AWS are included technology and content. General and Administrative The increase general and administrative costs absolute dollars and compared the comparable prior year periods primarily due increases payroll and related expenses, and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . The increase stock-based compensation compared primarily due increase total stock-based compensation value granted our employees and decrease our estimated forfeiture rate. The increase stock-based compensation compared primarily due decrease our estimated forfeiture rate. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $ million, $ million, and $( ) million during , and . , the amount primarily related amortization intangible assets, , the amount included amortization intangible assets and $ million legal settlement, and , the balance included amortization intangible assets and $ million noncash gain the sale our European DVD rental assets. Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds and the prevailing rates are earning them, which vary depending the geographies and currencies which they are invested. The primary component our net interest expense related our capital and financing leases and our long-term debt. Interest expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . The decline primarily relates principal reductions long term debt $ million. Our long-term liabilities were $ billion and $ billion December , and . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Liabilities.\x94 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . The primary component other income (expense), net, related foreign-currency gain intercompany balances. Income Taxes recorded provision for income taxes $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . The effective tax rate , and was lower than the % . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings our subsidiaries outside the . jurisdictions where our effective tax rate lower than the . Our effective tax rate subject significant variation due several factors, including variability accurately predicting our taxable income, the taxable jurisdictions which relates, business acquisitions and investments, and foreign currencies. have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. used substantially all our federal net operating loss carryforwards and have available federal tax credits $ million. result new . legislation that became effective December , are able accelerate our depreciation deductions for qualifying property acquired the fourth quarter . This accelerated depreciation deduction will continue for qualifying property acquired . Equity\x96Method Investment Activity, Net Tax Equity\x96method investment activity, net tax, was $ million, $( ) million, and $( ) million , , and . The increase equity-method investment activity compared primarily due the recognition non-cash gain previously held equity position company that was acquired . Effect Exchange Rates The effect our consolidated statements operations from changes exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Net sales $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , , $ $ , Operating expenses , ( ) , , ( ) , , , Income from operations , ( ) , , ( ) , Net interest income (expense) and other ( ) Net income , , ( ) Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates the reported period been the same those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results, and did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our intercompany balances and % PEACS, which redeemed . ( ) Represents the increase decrease reported amounts resulting from changes exchange rates from those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results, and did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our intercompany balances and % PEACS, which redeemed . ( ) Includes foreign currency gains and losses cross-currency investments, and remeasurement our intercompany balances and % PEACS, which redeemed . Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures \x93Free cash flow,\x94 operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect exchange rates our consolidated statement operations, meet the definition non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow used addition and conjunction with results presented accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not relied upon the exclusion GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow, which reconcile \x93Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,\x94 cash flow from operations reduced \x93Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.\x94 use free cash flow, and ratios based , conduct and evaluate our business because, although similar cash flow from operations, believe typically will present more conservative measure cash flows since purchases fixed assets are necessary component ongoing operations. Free cash flow has limitations due the fact that does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion payments representing principal reductions obligations related capital leases and leases accounted for financing arrangements cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, believe important view free cash flow complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP measure, \x93Net cash provided (used ) operating activities\x94 for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation provided show the impact stock-based compensation, which non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance (although consider the dilutive impact our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation not allocated segment results and therefore excluding from operating expense consistent with our segment presentation our footnotes the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since does not include all expenses primarily related our workforce. More specifically, did not pay out portion our compensation the form stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included the \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 line items would higher. Information regarding the effect exchange rates, versus the . Dollar, our consolidated statements operations provided show reported period operating results had the exchange rates remained the same those effect the comparable prior year period. Guidance provided guidance January , our earnings release furnished Form - follows: First Quarter Guidance \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and % compared with first quarter . \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, between % decline and % decline compared with first quarter . This guidance includes approximately $ million for stock-based compensation and amortization intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that additional business acquisitions investments are concluded and that there are further revisions stock-based compensation estimates. These projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Risk Factors.\x94 ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our consolidated balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate debt securities \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % . Government and Agency Securities , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Asset backed securities \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % Foreign government and agency securities , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Other securities \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % $ , $ , $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Cash equivalents and marketable fixed- income securities $ , Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our international websites, well those relating www amazon (which included our North America segment), are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites and primarily include British Pounds, Euros, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites the same the corresponding local currency. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues decreased $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (\x93foreign funds\x94). Based the balance foreign funds December , $ billion, assumed %, %, and % negative currency movement would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ million. All investments are classified \x93available for sale.\x94 Fluctuations fair value are recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 equity. have foreign exchange risk related our intercompany balances denominated various foreign currencies. Based the intercompany balances December , , assumed %, %, and % adverse change foreign currency exchange rates would result losses $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Other income (expense), net.\x94 See Item Part , \x93Effect Exchange Rates,\x94 for additional information the effect reported results changes exchange rates. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity investments was $ million. These investments primarily relate equity-method investments private companies. review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline fair value such assets below the carrying value other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review recent operating results and trends, recent sales acquisitions the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations private companies are inherently more difficult due the lack readily available market data. such, believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amazon com, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization Stock-based compensation Other operating expense (income), net ( ) Losses (gains) sales marketable securities, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other expense (income), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( ) ( ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable , , Accrued expenses and other Additions unearned revenue , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , , , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) Acquisitions, net cash acquired, and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , Purchases marketable securities and other investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Common stock repurchased \x97 \x97 ( ) Proceeds from long-term debt and other Repayments long-term debt and capital and financing leases ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities ( ) ( ) Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net increase cash and cash equivalents CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes Fixed assets acquired under capital leases Fixed assets acquired under build- -suit leases Conversion debt \x97 \x97 See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses ( ): Cost sales , , , Fulfillment , , , Marketing , Technology and content , , , General and administrative Other operating expense (income), net ( ) Total operating expenses , , , Income from operations , , Interest income Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net Total non-operating income (expense) Income before income taxes , , Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) Net income $ , $ $ Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Weighted average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ( ) Includes stock-based compensation follows: Fulfillment $ $ $ Marketing Technology and content General and administrative See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except per share data) December , Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other , Deferred tax assets Total current assets , , Fixed assets, net , , Deferred tax assets Goodwill , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , \x92 Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 Issued and outstanding shares\x97none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , Issued shares\x97 and Outstanding shares\x97 and Treasury stock, cost ( ) ( ) Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions) Common Stock Treasury Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit) Total Stockholders\x92 Equity Shares Amount Balance December , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation losses, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized losses available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Unrecognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Exercise common stock options and conversion debt \x97 \x97 \x97 Repurchase common stock ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , ( ) , ( ) ( ) , Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation gains net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income Exercise common stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Issuance common stock for acquisition activity \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , ( ) , ( ) , Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Foreign currency translation gains net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income , Exercise common stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS XBRL Start Note Note \x97DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July and offers Earth\x92 Biggest Selection. seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets: consumers, sellers, and enterprises. serve consumers through our retail websites and focus selection, price, and convenience. also manufacture and sell the Kindle -reader. offer programs that enable sellers sell their products our websites and their own branded websites and fulfill orders through . serve developers and enterprises all sizes through Amazon Web Services (\x93AWS\x94), which provides access technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type business. addition, generate revenue through other marketing and promotional services, such online advertising, and -branded credit card agreements. have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See \x93Note \x97Segment Information.\x94 Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities which have variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with . GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , determining the selling price products and services multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the lives these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation, income taxes, valuation investments and inventory, collectability receivables, valuation acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives fixed assets and internally-developed software, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect stock awards determined under the treasury stock method. The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( millions): Year Ended December , Shares used computation basic earnings per share Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards ( ) Shares used computation diluted earnings per share ( ) Calculated using the treasury stock method, which assumes proceeds are used reduce the dilutive effect outstanding stock awards. Assumed proceeds include the unrecognized deferred compensation stock awards, and assumed tax proceeds from excess stock-based compensation deductions. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using primarily the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our sellers\x92 programs. Third party sellers maintain ownership their inventory, regardless whether fulfillment provided the third party sellers, and therefore these products are not included our inventories. Accounts Receivable, Net, and Other Included \x93Accounts receivable, net, and other\x94 our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related vendor and customer receivables. December , and , vendor receivables, net, were $ million and $ million, and customer receivables, net, were $ million and $ million. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts and historical experience losses incurred. The allowance for doubtful customer and vendor receivables was $ million and $ million December , and . Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software . Costs related design maintenance internal-use software and website development are expensed incurred. For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), and $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation) costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Depreciation Fixed Assets Fixed assets include assets such furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure, internal-use software and website development. Depreciation recorded straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two years for assets such internal-use software, three years for our technology infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense classified within the corresponding operating expense categories our consolidated statements operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations categorize leases their inception either operating capital leases. certain our lease agreements, may receive rent holidays and other incentives. recognize lease costs straight-line basis without regard deferred payment terms, such rent holidays that defer the commencement date required payments. Additionally, incentives receive are treated reduction our costs over the term the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life the non-cancellable term the lease. establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build- -suit lease arrangements the extent are involved the construction structural improvements take construction risk prior commencement lease. Upon occupancy facilities under build- -suit leases, assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. continue the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for financing leases. establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs retire long-lived assets the termination expiration lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment annually more frequently when event occurs circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not recoverable. test goodwill for impairment first comparing the book value net assets the fair value the reporting units. the fair value determined less than the book value, second step performed compute the amount impairment the difference between the estimated fair value goodwill and the carrying value. estimate the fair value the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts future cash flows are based our best estimate future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily estimated category expansion, pricing, market segment share and general economic conditions. conduct our annual impairment test October each year, and have determined there impairment for any the periods presented. There were events circumstances from the date our assessment through December , that would impact this conclusion. See \x93Note \x97Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.\x94 Other Assets Included \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority which are attributable collateralization bank guarantees and debt related our international operations; acquired intangible assets, net amortization; deferred costs; certain equity investments; and intellectual property rights, net amortization. Investments generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included \x93Cash and cash equivalents,\x94 \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified available-for-sale, and reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. The total these investments equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities and goodwill, classified our consolidated balance sheets \x93Other assets.\x94 Our share the investees\x92 earnings losses, amortization the related intangible assets, and related gains losses, any, are classified \x93Equity-method investment activity, net tax\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which not have the ability exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method accounting and classified \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified available-for-sale and included \x93Marketable securities\x94 our consolidated balance sheet and are recorded fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net tax, included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive loss.\x94 periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration the unrealized loss well our ability and intent hold the investment until forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, assess whether have plans sell the security more likely than not will required sell any investment before recovery its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions offers investee securities; credit quality debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value our investments; duration and severity the decline value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets may not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset\x92 carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , . Accrued Expenses and Other Included \x93Accrued expenses and other\x94 December , and were liabilities $ million and $ million for unredeemed gift certificates. reduce the liability for gift certificate when applied order. gift certificate not redeemed, recognize revenue when expires , for certificate without expiration date, when the likelihood its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance performing our service obligations and recognized over the service period. Current unearned revenue included \x93Accrued expenses and other\x94 and non-current unearned revenue included \x93Long-term liabilities\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Current unearned revenue was $ million and $ million December , and . Non-current unearned revenue was $ million and $ million December , and . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes. Except required under . tax law, not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . Undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside the were $ billion December , . Determination the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would incurred such amounts were repatriated not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations future taxable income and capital gains taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. allocate our valuation allowance current and long-term deferred tax assets pro-rata basis. utilize two-step approach recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step evaluate the tax position for recognition determining the weight available evidence indicates more likely than not that the position will sustained audit, including resolution related appeals litigation processes. The second step measure the tax benefit the largest amount which more than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. include interest and penalties related our tax contingencies income tax expense. Fair Value Financial Instruments Fair value defined the price that would received sell asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. increase the comparability fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs valuation methodologies used measure fair value: Level \x97Valuations based quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities active markets. Level \x97Valuations based observable inputs other than quoted prices included Level , such quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities active markets, quoted prices for identical similar assets and liabilities markets that are not active, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data. Level \x97Valuations based unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. measure the fair value money market funds and equity securities based quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued based quoted market prices similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. Revenue recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectability reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue allocated using estimated selling prices not have vendor-specific objective evidence third-party evidence the selling prices the deliverables. Also, see \x93Recent Accounting Pronouncements\x94 below. evaluate whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are primarily obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded the gross sales price. are not primarily obligated, and not have latitude establishing prices, amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail sales customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered recorded net sales and consumption taxes. Amounts received advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue over the subscription term. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts earned through other seller sites are recognized when items are sold sellers and our collectability reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges customers are included \x93Net sales.\x94 Outbound shipping-related costs are included \x93Cost sales.\x94 Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products and content sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges receive products from our suppliers are included inventory cost, and recognized \x93Cost sales\x94 upon sale products our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified \x93Fulfillment\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Vendor Agreements have agreements receive cash consideration from certain our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. generally consider amounts received from our vendors reduction the prices pay for their products and, therefore, record such amounts reduction the cost inventory buy from them. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. When receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred advertising the vendor\x92 product service, the amount receive recorded offset \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures; and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, business development, and selling activities. pay commissions participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales and classify such costs \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs, are expensed incurred, and were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for employees involved application development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, well costs associated with the compute, storage and telecommunications infrastructure used internally and supporting AWS. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for employees involved general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use these functions facilities and equipment, such depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock-based awards expected vest measured fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily intangible asset amortization expense, expenses related legal settlements, and certain gains and losses the sale assets. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily gains and losses sales marketable securities and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Foreign Currency have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, China, and Italy . Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated the functional currencies the resident countries. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these international websites the same the local currency. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 equity, and the \x93Foreign currency effect cash and cash equivalents,\x94 our consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 our consolidated statements operations. connection with the remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded losses $ million , and gains $ million, and $ million and . Recent Accounting Pronouncements June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued ASU - , Improvements Financial Reporting Enterprises Involved With Variable Interest Entities , which provides authoritative guidance the consolidation variable interest entities. The new guidance requires qualitative approach identifying controlling financial interest variable interest entity (\x93VIE\x94), and requires ongoing assessment whether entity VIE and whether interest VIE makes the holder the primary beneficiary the VIE. adopted this guidance January , . Adoption did not have material impact our consolidated financial statements. January , , prospectively adopted ASU - , which amends Accounting Standards Codification (\x93ASC\x94) Topic , Revenue Recognition. Under this standard, allocate revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables using estimated selling prices not have vendor-specific objective evidence third-party evidence the selling prices the deliverables. Estimated selling prices are management\x92 best estimates the prices that would charge our customers were sell the standalone elements separately. Sales our Kindle -reader are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting the device, wireless access and delivery for some models, and software upgrades. Under the prior accounting standard, accounted for sales the Kindle ratably over the average estimated life the device. Accordingly, revenue and associated product cost the device through December , , were deferred the time sale and recognized straight-line basis over the two year average estimated economic life. January , account for the sale the Kindle multiple deliverables. The revenue related the device, which the substantial portion the total sale price, and related costs are recognized upon delivery. Revenue related wireless access and delivery and software upgrades amortized over the average life the device, which remains estimated two years. Because have adopted ASU - prospectively, are recognizing $ million throughout and for revenue previously deferred under the prior accounting standard. January , the FASB issued ASU - , Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements , which requires reporting entities make new disclosures about recurring nonrecurring fair-value measurements including significant transfers into and out Level and Level fair-value measurements and information purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements gross basis the reconciliation Level fair-value measurements. ASU - effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December , , except for Level reconciliation disclosures which are effective for annual periods beginning after December , . The adoption ASU - did not have material impact our consolidated financial statement disclosures. XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES December , and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted cash, . and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds and other investment grade securities. Such amounts are recorded fair value. The following table summarizes, major security type, our assets that are measured fair value recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy ( millions): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Level securities: Money market funds , \x97 \x97 , Equity securities \x97 ( ) Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities , ( ) , . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities ( ) Asset-backed securities \x97 Other fixed income securities \x97 \x97 $ , $ $ ( ) , Less: Long-term restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Level securities: Money market funds , \x97 \x97 , Equity securities \x97 ( ) Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities , \x97 , . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities \x97 Asset-backed securities \x97 Other fixed income securities \x97 \x97 $ , $ $ ( ) , Less: Long-term restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , ( ) are required pledge otherwise restrict portion our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate lease agreements. classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions twelve months longer non-current \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities ( millions): Year Ended December , Realized gains $ $ $ Realized losses \x97 The following table summarizes contractual maturities our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , $ , $ , XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consisted the following ( millions): December , Gross Fixed Assets ( ): Fulfillment and customer service $ $ Technology infrastructure , Internal-use software, content, and website development Other corporate assets Construction progress Gross fixed assets , , Accumulated Depreciation ( ): Fulfillment and customer service Technology infrastructure Internal-use software, content, and website development Other corporate assets Total accumulated depreciation Total fixed assets, net $ , $ , ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ million, and $ million December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ million and $ million December , and . capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for lease agreements where are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes, including portions our Seattle, Washington, corporate office space that not currently occupy. The buildings which have not yet occupied are scheduled completed between and . For buildings that are under build- -suit lease arrangements, where have taken occupancy during the year ended December , , determined that continue the deemed owner. These arrangements not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance due principally our significant investment tenant improvements. result, the buildings the amount $ million have been reclassified within \x93Fixed assets\x94 from \x93Construction progress\x94 \x93Other corporate assets\x94 and are being depreciated over the shorter their useful lives the related lease terms. The long-term construction obligation has been reclassified within \x93Long-term liabilities\x94 from \x93Construction liability\x94 \x93Long-term financing lease obligations\x94 with amounts payable during the next months recorded \x93Accrued expenses and other.\x94 XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisition Activity , acquired certain companies for aggregate purchase price $ million, resulting goodwill $ million and acquired intangible assets $ million. The primary reasons for these acquisitions were expand our customer base and sales channels. The purchase price was allocated the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based their estimated fair values the acquisition date, with the remaining unallocated purchase price recorded goodwill. The fair value assigned identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined primarily using the income and cost approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized straight-line accelerated basis over their respective useful lives. The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting their respective acquisition dates. The financial effect these acquisitions, individually and the aggregate, was not material our consolidated financial statements. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these business combinations, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. Acquisition Activity November , , acquired % the outstanding equity Zappos com, Inc. (\x93Zappos\x94), exchange for shares our common stock, expand our presence softline retail categories, such shoes and apparel. The fair value Zappos\x92 stock options assumed was determined using the Black-Scholes model. The following table summarizes the consideration paid for Zappos ( millions): Stock issued $ , Assumed stock options, net $ , The purchase price was allocated the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based their estimated fair values the acquisition date, with the remaining unallocated purchase price recorded goodwill. The fair value assigned identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined primarily using the income approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized straight-line and accelerated basis over their respective useful lives. The following summarizes the allocation the Zappos purchase price ( millions): Goodwill $ Other net assets acquired Deferred tax liabilities net ( ) Intangible assets ( ): Marketing-related Contract-based Customer-related $ , ( ) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives between and years. Zappos\x92 financial results have been included our consolidated statements income November , . The following pro forma financial information presents the results the Zappos acquisition had occurred the beginning each year presented ( millions): Year Ended December , Net sales $ , $ , Net income acquired certain additional companies during for aggregate purchase price $ million, resulting goodwill $ million and acquired intangible assets $ million. All the entities have been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these business combinations, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. Acquisition Activity acquired certain companies during for aggregate purchase price $ million, resulting goodwill $ million and acquired intangible assets $ million. All these entities have been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these business combinations, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. Goodwill Goodwill generally not deductible for tax purposes and primarily comprised intangible assets that not qualify for separate recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity and ( millions): North America International Consolidated Goodwill\x97January , $ $ $ New acquisitions Other adjustments ( ) Goodwill\x97December , , , New acquisitions Other adjustments ( ) Goodwill\x97December , $ , $ $ , ( ) Primarily includes changes foreign exchange for goodwill our International segment. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets, consist the following: December , Weighted Average Life Remaining Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net ( millions) Marketing-related $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Contract-based ( ) ( ) Technology and content ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Acquired intangibles ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. ( ) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives between and years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Expected future amortization expense acquired intangible assets December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , $ Thereafter $ XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our long-term liabilities are summarized follows: December , ( millions) Long-term debt $ $ Long-term capital lease obligations Long-term financing lease obligations \x97 Construction liability Tax contingencies Other $ , $ , Long-term Debt December , , and , our long-term debt was $ million and $ million, had weighted average interest rate % and %, and maturities , , and . Long-term debt relates amounts borrowed fund certain international operations. Capital Leases Certain our equipment fixed assets, primarily related technology infrastructure, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows: December , ( millions) Gross capital lease obligations $ Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments Less current portion capital lease obligation ( ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ Financing leases continue the deemed owner after occupancy certain facilities that were constructed build- -suit lease arrangements and previously reflected \x93Construction liability.\x94 such, these arrangements are accounted for financing leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are follows: December , ( millions) Gross financing lease obligations $ Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments Less current portion financing lease obligation ( ) Total long-term financing lease obligations $ Construction Liabilities capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for certain build- -suit lease agreements where are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes, including our Seattle, Washington, corporate office space that not currently occupy. See \x93Note \x97Fixed Assets\x94 for discussion these leases. Tax Contingencies December , and , have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive accrued interest and penalties, approximately $ million and $ million for . and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See \x93Note \x97Income Taxes\x94 for discussion tax contingencies. The remainder our long-term liabilities primarily include deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, asset retirement obligations, and deferred rental liabilities. XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital and financing leases for equipment and office, fulfillment center, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal operations, December , : Year Ended December , Thereafter Total ( millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and interest $ $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Capital leases, including interest \x97 Financing lease obligations, including interest ( ) Operating leases , Other commitments ( ) ( ) , Total commitments $ $ $ $ $ $ , $ , ( ) Relates the , square feet occupied corporate office space under build- -suit lease arrangements ( ) Includes the estimated timing and amounts payments for rent, operating expenses, and tenant improvements associated with approximately million square feet corporate office space currently being developed under build- -suit leases and which anticipate occupying . The amount space available and our financial and other obligations under the lease agreements are affected various factors, including government approvals and permits, interest rates, development costs and other expenses and our exercise certain rights under the lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97Fixed Assets\x94 for discussion these leases. ( ) Excludes $ million tax contingencies for which cannot make reasonably reliable estimate the amount and period payment, any. Pledged Securities have pledged otherwise restricted $ million and $ million and our cash and marketable securities collateral for standby and trade letters credit, guarantees, debt related our international operations, well real estate leases. classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions twelve months longer non-current \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Inventory Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our inventory purchases. generally not have long-term contracts arrangements with our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Legal Proceedings The Company involved from time time claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: June , Audible, Inc., our subsidiary acquired March , was named defendant securities class-action filed United States District Court for the Southern District New York related its initial public offering July . The lawsuit also named certain the offering\x92 underwriters, well Audible\x92 officers and directors defendants. Approximately other issuers and their underwriters have had similar suits filed against them, all which are included single coordinated proceeding the Southern District New York. The complaints allege that the prospectus and the registration statement for Audible\x92 offering failed disclose that the underwriters allegedly solicited and received \x93excessive\x94 commissions from investors and that some investors allegedly agreed with the underwriters buy additional shares the aftermarket order inflate the price Audible\x92 stock. Audible and its officers and directors were named the suits pursuant Section the Securities Act , Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , and other related provisions. The complaints seek unspecified damages, attorney and expert fees, and other unspecified litigation costs. March , all parties, including Audible, reached settlement these class actions that would resolve this dispute entirely with payment required from Audible. The settlement was approved the Court October , and that settlement currently under appeal the Court Appeals for the Second Circuit. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois, private litigant, Beeler, Schad & Diamond, ., purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. December , learned that one additional complaint was filed the state Illinois different private litigant, Matthew . Hurst, alleging similar violations the Illinois state law. All the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. August , Cordance Corporation filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our -Click ordering system, infringes patent obtained Cordance purporting cover \x93Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. response, asserted declaratory judgment counterclaim the same action alleging that service that Cordance has advertised its intent launch infringes patent owned entitled \x93Networked Personal Contact Manager\x94 ( . Patent . , , ). August , jury trial was held and the jury found that all asserted claims the \x91 patent were not infringed Amazon were invalid. February , the Court partially reversed the jury\x92 findings, ruling that some the asserted claims the \x91 Patent were valid and were infringed Amazon. commenced our appeal the Court\x92 ruling the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit August . November , Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against several Amazon com subsidiaries the Commercial Court Vienna, Austria and the District Court Munich, Germany seeking collect tariff blank digital media sold our -based retail websites customers located Austria. July , the German court stayed the German case pending final decision the Austrian case. July , the Austrian court ruled favor Austro-Mechana and ordered report all sales products which the tariff potentially applies for determination damages. contest Austro-Mechana\x92 claim and September commenced appeal the Commercial Court Vienna. March , Discovery Communications, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our Kindle -reader infringes patent owned Discovery purporting cover \x93Electronic Book Security and Copyright Protection System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks monetary damages, continuing royalty sufficient compensate Discovery for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. May , filed counterclaims and additional lawsuit the United States District Court for the Western District Washington against Discovery alleging infringement several patents owned Amazon and requesting declaration that several Discovery patents, including the one listed above, are invalid and unenforceable. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. April , Parallel Networks, LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes patent owned Parallel Networks purporting cover \x93Method And Apparatus For Client-Server Communication Using Limited Capability Client Over Low-Speed Communications Link\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice February , but the plaintiff filed new complaint against the following month containing similar allegations. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. May , Big Baboon, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Central District California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes patent owned Big Baboon, Inc. purporting cover \x93Integrated Business- -Business Web Commerce and Business Automation System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. June , Bedrock Computer Technologies LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes patent owned Bedrock purporting cover \x93Method And Apparatus For Information Storage and Retrieval Using Hashing Technique with External Chaining and -the-Fly Removal Expired Data\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages, compulsory future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice March , but the plaintiff filed new complaint against the following month containing similar allegations. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. September , SpeedTrack, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes patent owned SpeedTrack purporting cover \x93Method For Accessing Computer Files and Data, Using Linked Categories Assigned Each Data File Record Entry the Data File Record\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages, costs and attorneys fees. November , the Court entered order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome the Patent and Trademark Office\x92 -examination the patent suit and the resolution similar litigation against another party. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. September , Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology and digital content distribution systems infringe six Alcatel-Lucent\x92 patents and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, continuing royalty sufficient compensate Alcatel-Lucent for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. January , filed counterclaims against Alcatel-Lucent alleging infringement patent owned Amazon and that the patents asserted Alcatel-Lucent are invalid and unenforceable. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , Eolas Technologies Incorporated filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes two patents owned Eolas purporting cover \x93Distributed Hypermedia Method for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display Embedded Objects within Hypermedia Document\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display Embedded Objects within Hypermedia Document\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. December , Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the processor core our Kindle -reader infringes two patents owned Nazomi purporting cover \x93Java virtual machine hardware for RISC and CISC processors\x94 and \x93Java hardware accelerator using microcode engine\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. February , Texas OCR Technologies LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleged, among other things, that our Search Inside the Book feature infringes patent owned Texas OCR Technologies purporting cover \x93Methodology for Displaying Search Results Using Character Recognition\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and sought monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. January , settled this litigation terms that include nonexclusive license the patent suit and, accordingly, the lawsuit has been dismissed with prejudice. May , Sharing Sound LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleged, among other things, that our website technology infringes patent licensed the plaintiffs purporting cover \x93Distribution Musical Products Website Vendor Over the Internet\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and sought monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. January , settled this litigation terms that include nonexclusive license the patent suit and, accordingly, expect the lawsuit dismissed with prejudice. May , Site Update Solutions LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes patent owned Site Update purporting cover \x93Process for Maintaining Ongoing Registration for Pages Given Search Engine\x94 ( . Patent . RE40, ) and seeks monetary damages, future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. May , Stragent, LLC and Seesaw Foundation filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain our AWS technologies infringe patent licensed the plaintiffs purporting cover \x93Method Providing Data Dictionary-Driven Web-Based Database Applications\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks monetary damages, future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. July , Positive Technologies Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain our products, including our Kindle -reader, infringe three patents owned the plaintiff purporting cover \x93 Integrating Display Driver Employing Pixel Status Memories\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , , , , and , , ) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. July , the Federal Trade Commission staff informed that was considering whether recommend enforcement proceedings against for advertising and selling certain textile fiber products \x93bamboo\x94 when they are made rayon manufactured from bamboo, violation the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the FTC Act, and the regulations promulgated there under. not believe have violated these laws and regulations and are cooperating voluntarily with the Commission\x92 inquiry. September , Olympic Developments , LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Central District California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain aspects our technology, including our Kindle -reader, infringe two patents owned the plaintiff purporting cover \x93Transactional Processing System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Device for Controlling Remote Interactive Receiver\x94 ( . Patent . , ,400B1) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. November , Kelora Systems, LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Western District Wisconsin. The complaint alleges that our website infringes patent owned Kelora Systems purporting cover \x93Method and system for executing guided parametric search\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks monetary damages, costs, attorneys fees, and injunctive relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. December , Global Sessions filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Amazon and AWS technologies infringe four patents owned the plaintiff purporting cover \x93System And Method For Maintaining State For User Session Using Web System Having Global Session Server\x94 ( . Patent . , , ), \x93Enterprise Interaction Hub For Managing Enterprise Web System\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ), and \x93System And Method For Maintaining State For User Session Using Web System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ), and seeks monetary damages, future royalty, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. December , Technology Innovations, LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Southern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon\x92 sale -books and Kindle -readers infringes patent owned the plaintiff purporting cover \x93Device For Including Enhancing Information With Printed Information And Method For Electronic Searching Thereof\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs, interest, and attorneys fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows. Other Contingencies September , the State Texas issued assessment $ million for uncollected sales taxes for the period from December December , including interest and penalties through the date the assessment. The State Texas alleging that should have collected sales taxes applicable sales transactions during those years. believe that the State Texas did not provide sufficient basis for its assessment and that the assessment without merit. intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution this matter could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows. See also \x93Note \x97Income Taxes.\x94 XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled million, million, and million, December , , and . These totals include all vested and unvested stock-based awards outstanding, before consideration estimated forfeitures. Stock Repurchase Activity January , our Board Directors authorized program repurchase $ billion our common stock, which replaces the Board\x92 prior authorization. did not repurchase any our common stock . repurchased million shares common stock for $ million under the $ billion repurchase program authorized our Board Directors February . Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Stock Award Activity granted restricted stock units representing million, million, and million shares common stock during , , and with per share weighted average fair value $ , $ , and $ . The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( millions): Number Units Outstanding January , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting\x97restricted stock units December , , there was $ million net unrecognized compensation cost related unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation recognized accelerated basis resulting approximately half the compensation expected expensed the next twelve months, and has weighted average recognition period years. During and , the fair value restricted stock units that vested was $ million and $ million. matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan, granted million shares common stock both and . Shares granted matching contributions under our ( ) plan are included outstanding common stock when issued. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance employees million shares. XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The components other comprehensive income (loss) are follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net income $ , $ $ Net change unrealized gains losses available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net tax $( ), $( ), and $ \x97 Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included net income, net tax effect $ , $ , and $ ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available for sale securities ( ) Foreign currency translation adjustment, net tax effect $ , $ , and $ ( ) ( ) Other \x97 \x97 Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Comprehensive income $ , $ $ Balances within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are follows: December , ( millions) Net unrealized losses foreign currency translation, net tax $ ( ) $ ( ) Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97INCOME TAXES , , and recorded net tax provisions $ million, $ million, and $ million. majority this provision non-cash. have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating excess stock-based compensation that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. such, cash taxes paid, net refunds, were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The components the provision for income taxes, net are follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Current taxes: . and state $ $ $ International Current taxes Deferred taxes: . and state International ( ) ( ) Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes, net $ $ $ . and international components income before income taxes are follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) . $ $ $ International ( ) Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ ( ) Included the impact the $ million non-cash gain associated with the sale our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed rates substantially below the % . federal statutory rate. The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are follows: Year Ended December , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Impact foreign tax differential ( ) ( ) ( ) State taxes, net federal benefits Tax credits ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible stock-based compensation Valuation allowance ( ) Other, net ( ) Total % % % The effective tax rate , , and was lower than the % . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings our subsidiaries outside the . jurisdictions where our effective tax rate lower than the . Included the total tax provision discrete item during the impact related the $ million noncash gain associated with the sale our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed rates substantially below the % . federal statutory rate. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are follows: December , ( millions ) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses\x97stock-based compensation ( ) $ $ Net operating losses\x97other Net operating losses\x97obtained through acquisitions ( ) Stock-based compensation Assets held for investment Revenue items Expense items Other items Net tax credits ( ) Total gross deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance Deferred tax liabilities: Basis difference intangible assets ( ) ( ) Expense items ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities $ $ ( ) Excludes unrecognized federal net operating loss carryforward deferred tax assets $ million December , . The total gross deferred tax assets relating our federal excess stock-based compensation net operating loss carryforwards December , and were $ million and $ million (relating approximately $ million and $ million our federal net operating loss carryforwards). The majority our net operating loss carryforwards begin expire and thereafter. ( ) The utilization some these net operating loss carryforwards subject annual limitation under applicable provisions the Internal Revenue Code. ( ) Presented net fully reserved deferred tax assets associated with tax credits $ million and $ million December , and . Total tax credits available claimed future years are approximately $ million and $ million December , and , and begin expire . ( ) Relates primarily deferred tax assets that would only realizable upon the generation future capital gains and net income certain foreign taxing jurisdictions. Tax Contingencies are subject income taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based estimates whether, and the extent which, additional taxes will due. These reserves are established when believe that certain positions might challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. adjust these reserves light changing facts and circumstances, such the outcome tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation our tax contingencies follows ( millions): December , ( millions) Gross tax contingencies\x97January $ $ Gross increases tax positions prior periods Gross decreases tax positions prior periods ( ) \x97 Gross increases current period tax positions Audit settlements paid during ( ) \x97 Foreign exchange gain (loss) tax contingencies ( ) Gross tax contingencies\x97December ( ) $ $ ( ) December , , had $ million tax contingencies all which, fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. Due the nature our business operations expect the total amount tax contingencies for prior period tax positions will grow comparable amounts , however changes state and federal tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. reasonably possible that within the next months will receive additional assessments various tax authorities. These assessments may not result changes our contingencies. December , and , had accrued interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, related tax contingencies $ million and $ million. Interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, recognized for the year ended December , and was $ million and $ million. are under examination, may subject examination, the Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) for calendar years through . Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated prior years and utilized through may also subject examination the IRS. are under examination, may subject examination, the following major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for through , France for through , Germany for through , Japan for through , Luxembourg for through , and the United Kingdom for through . December , learned that the French government investigating certain our European affiliates regarding income taxes, and are cooperating. addition, , Japanese tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, approximately $ million against one our . subsidiaries for the years through . Proceedings the assessment were stayed during negotiations between . and Japanese tax authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raised, and provided bank guarantees suspend enforcement the assessment. , the . and Japanese tax authorities reached agreement, the allocation our income between the . and Japan for through . The amount tax expense, net related deductions and foreign tax credits, recorded for this assessment was not significant. have paid the assessment and the Japanese tax authorities have released all the bank guarantees. XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. allocate segment results the operating expenses \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative,\x94 but exclude from our allocations the portions these expense lines attributable stock-based compensation. not allocate the line item \x93Other operating expense (income), net\x94 our segment operating results. majority our costs for \x93Technology and content\x94 are incurred the United States and most these costs are allocated our North America segment. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such www amazon com and www amazon and include amounts earned from AWS. This segment includes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused locations. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based locations (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from our . and Canadian locations. Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) North America Net sales $ , $ , $ , Segment operating expenses ( ) , , , Segment operating income $ $ $ International Net sales $ , $ , $ , Segment operating expenses ( ) , , , Segment operating income $ $ $ Consolidated Net sales $ , $ , $ , Segment operating expenses ( ) , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Other operating income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income from operations , , Total non-operating income (expense), net Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) Net income $ , $ $ ( ) Represents operating expenses, excluding stock-based compensation and \x93Other operating expense (income), net,\x94 which are not allocated segments. Net sales earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions outside the . represented approximately half net sales for , , and . Net sales earned Germany, Japan, and United Kingdom each represented % % net sales , and % % net sales and . Total assets, segment, reconciled consolidated amounts were ( millions): December , North America $ , $ , International , , Consolidated $ , $ , Fixed assets, net, segment, reconciled consolidated amounts were ( millions): December , North America $ , $ , International Consolidated $ , $ , Fixed assets, net, located outside the . represented less than % consolidated fixed assets, net, for any individual country. Depreciation expense, segment, follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America $ $ $ International Consolidated $ $ $ XBRL End Note XBRL Start Note Note \x97QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , ( ) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Year Ended December , ( ) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income Basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ( ) The sum quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due the effects rounding and changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. XBRL End Note ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Act, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the reports that file submit under the Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the SEC\x92 rules and forms and provide reasonable assurance that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting and its report included below. Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December , that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed provide reasonable assurance achieving their objectives specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited Amazon com, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon com, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , Amazon com, Inc. and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January , ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes the process which security holders may recommend nominees the Board Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, intend disclose amendments our Code Business Conduct and Ethics, well waivers the provisions thereof, our investor relations website under the heading \x93Corporate Governance\x94 www amazon com . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ( ) Index Exhibits See exhibits listed under the Exhibit Index below. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}