{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" "Microsoft") was founded partnership and incorporated . Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports wide range software products, including operating systems for personal computers (PCs), workstations, and servers; business and consumer programs for productivity, reference, education, and entertainment; and development tools. Microsoft also markets personal computer books and input devices and engaged the research and development online and advanced technology software products. Microsoft( ) products are available for most PCs, including Intel-type microprocessor-based computers and Apple computers. Microsoft\' business strategy emphasizes the development broad line microcomputer software products for business and personal use, marketed through multiple channels distribution. The Company divided into four main groups: the Platforms Product Group; the Applications and Content Product Group; the Sales and Support Group; and the Operations Group. The Platforms Product Group comprised four divisions, each responsible for particular area platforms software development and marketing. The Personal Systems Division designs and develops operating systems and technologies (such multimedia, user interface, and online browsers) for general and home users. The Business Systems Division responsible for computing solutions for corporate and enterprise use, including client-server operating systems, networking products, and server and workgroup applications. The Developer Division creates database products, well programming language products and software development tools. The Consumer Systems Division developing software products and technologies for use the emerging public networks, including future interactive television networks, and for creating advanced multimedia applications, such titles. The Applications and Content Product Group has two divisions that create and market productivity programs for PCs and multimedia content titles. The group also includes online systems and research. The Desktop Applications Division creates productivity applications. The Consumer Division develops products designed for the home, school, and small business market, including multimedia consumer products and input devices. The MSN Division responsible for online and Internet service. Microsoft Research research lab dedicated creating new technology support the Company\' vision for the evolution personal computing. The Sales and Support Group responsible for building long-term business relationships with customers. This group organized serve three customer types: OEMs (original equipment manufacturers), end users, and organizations. The Sales and Support Group manages the channels that serve those customers. These include the OEM channel and the following geographic channels: . and Canada, Europe, and Other International. The group also provides support for the Company\' products through Product Support Services, Consulting Services, and Solutions Providers. The Operations Group responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes the process manufacturing and delivering finished goods, licenses, subscriptions, and fulfillment orders; the publishing efforts Microsoft Press; and other corporate functions. PRODUCTS PERSONAL SYSTEMS The Personal Systems Division develops desktop operating systems software, which performs operations such allocating computer memory, scheduling the execution applications software, and managing the flow information and communication among the various components the . The division\' primary desktop operating systems for PCs are: Microsoft Windows( ) , Microsoft -DOS( ), Microsoft Windows , and Microsoft Windows for Workgroups. (Windows and Windows for Workgroups are hereafter referred collectively "Windows .") Windows : Microsoft\' new personal operating system, designed the successor -DOS and Windows , was released commercially August , . Windows fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, compatible with mainstream PCs and most Windows and -DOS software applications. Windows was also designed for the next generation applications, games, PCs, and peripherals. -DOS: Microsoft -DOS single-user, single-tasking operating system designed for PCs that utilize Intel microprocessor chips. Since the introduction -DOS , the Company has enhanced -DOS new technologies have developed and new user needs have arisen. -DOS has been preinstalled OEMs most PCs. Windows : Microsoft Windows graphical operating system for -DOS-based PCs. Microsoft Windows supports high-performance Windows-based applications, and offers ease use and aesthetic appeal, scalable TrueType( ) fonts, built- multimedia functionality, and straightforward integration into corporate computing environments. Windows for Workgroups : Windows for Workgroups integrates network and workgroup functionality directly into the Windows operating system. With Windows for Workgroups, users can share files, data, and printers, with ease access and security. BUSINESS SYSTEMS The Business Systems Division focused delivering broad range business computing solutions for organizations. The division develops and markets integrated product line software for creating business solutions, including foundation operating systems for servers and workstations, well applications for business servers. Server applications development divided into the areas databases, connectivity, systems management, and workgroup applications. Server software products are marketed separately part integrated family products, the Microsoft BackOffice( ). The BackOffice family includes the following key products. Windows Workstation and Server: Microsoft Windows ( ) Workstation powerful desktop operating system designed for demanding business needs. -bit, multithreaded operating system for mission critical computing which provides the same feature and applications programming interface (API) set across four hardware platforms: Intel, Alpha AXP, MIPS, and Power . The operating system provides integrated mail and networking with remote access, pre-emptive multitasking, and support for background communication sessions. The Windows Server designed the network foundation for new generation business applications. provides extensive network management features, administration tools, security, and fault tolerance. platform for business critical applications and database, connectivity, system management, and mail servers. SQL Server: Microsoft SQL Server high-performance relational database management system designed specifically for distributed computing. SQL Server supports the Structured Query Language, which commonly used language through which application programs communicate with relational databases. The Company provides SQL Server for Windows systems. This product developed the Developer Division and marketed part BackOffice the Business Systems Division. SNA Server: Microsoft SNA Server robust, highly fault-tolerant, and easy- -maintain gateway product that connects local area networks (LANs) with IBM host systems using SNA protocols. Systems Management Server: Microsoft Systems Management Server software tool that helps information technology departments centrally manage distributed-computing environments. With Systems Management Server, system administrators can distribute and install software PCs throughout enterprise, meter software licenses, conduct remote diagnostics, and perform detailed inventory hardware and software resources. Mail Server: Microsoft Mail Server for networks system for distributing messages and information. provides administrative utilities for managing message files, addresses, and mail system capabilities. Microsoft Mail Server supports users popular desktop platforms, including Windows , Windows , -DOS, Macintosh, and . Mail: Microsoft Mail for networks includes client-access software for Windows , Windows , -DOS, Macintosh, and platforms. addition, this workgroup application offers large corporate users support for multiple network environments. companion product, Microsoft Mail for AppleTalk networks, used companies with Macintosh servers. Microsoft Mail Remote for Windows offers software for remote clients used travelers those working home stay touch with the office mail system. Schedule+: Microsoft Schedule+ calendar and scheduling program that helps individuals and groups manage their time and resources. The program can search other workgroup members\' schedules determine meeting availability times, provide invitees the means accept, decline, tentatively accept invitations meetings, and automatically notify attendees meeting canceled rescheduled. DEVELOPER PRODUCTS The Developer Division provides software development tools, database products, and technical information Windows developers worldwide. These products and services help independent software developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and hobbyists create wide variety applications, primarily for Windows , Windows , and Windows . Database Products: Database products control the maintenance and utilization structured data organized into set records files. The Company offers database products which span the needs wide variety users, from individuals large corporations. These products include Microsoft Access, Microsoft FoxPro( ), Microsoft SQL Server, and variety database connectivity technologies. Microsoft Access relational database management application, also offered conjunction with Microsoft Office, which provides access structured business data. Microsoft FoxPro desktop database development tool which compatible with the industry standard xBase development language. FoxPro supports xBase applications -DOS, Windows , Windows , Windows , Macintosh, and UNIX. The Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) product provides access and connectivity read and write various databases from other computer industry vendors from within Microsoft Windows applications. Software Development Tools and Computer Languages: Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct the hardware. The Company develops and markets number software development environments, language compilers, and software testing tools. Microsoft Visual ++( ) the Company\' development system for - and -bit application development Windows , Windows , and Windows . The Microsoft Visual Basic( ) programming system for Windows , Windows , and Windows operating systems provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability leverage investments commercial applications through OLE . Additionally, the Company offers professional, highly-integrated development environments the FORTRAN language for -DOS, Windows , and Windows . Developer Information Products: The Company provides third party software developers with wide range technical and support information that assists them developing software products intended run Windows , Windows , and Windows . Developers subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) information service and receive periodic updates via -ROMs, magazines, and several -line information services. CONSUMER SYSTEMS The Consumer Systems Division developing advanced system software. Core technologies under development include broadband networking and multimedia operating system architecture, advanced video and graphics, and new authoring system technologies for interactive television. The group also responsible for the development and marketing activities the Company\' SoftImage products, which include authoring and editing systems for film and video. DESKTOP APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which provides the with instructions for the performance end user tasks. The Company\' desktop applications software designed for use broad class end users, regardless business, industry, market segment. Primary examples desktop applications software are word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation graphics programs. The Company\' desktop applications programs are developed principally for Windows , Windows , and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office: Microsoft Office( ) suite software programs featuring seamless integration the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft Office based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use object linking and embedding (OLE) cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office available two editions, Standard and Professional. The Standard Edition includes Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, and the Microsoft PowerPoint( ) presentation graphics program. The Microsoft Office for Windows version also includes Schedule+, while earlier versions the Standard Edition included client-access license for Microsoft Mail. The Standard Edition available for Windows , Windows , and Macintosh operating systems. The Microsoft Office Professional Edition for Windows adds the Microsoft Access( ) database. Microsoft Word: The Company\' principal word processing program Microsoft Word. Versions Microsoft Word for Windows and for Windows provide all the features that users word processing products expect the Windows graphical environment, plus the ability handle graphics, tables, spreadsheet data, charts, and images imported from other Windows-based software programs. The Company also has Windows and Macintosh versions Microsoft Word. Microsoft Excel: The Company\' spreadsheet program Microsoft Excel, which available for Windows , Windows , Windows , and Macintosh operating systems. integrated spreadsheet with pivot table, database, and business graphics capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and embedding objects that permits users view and edit graphics charts from other Windows-based programs from the worksheet which the object stored. Microsoft Excel graphics capabilities can linked its spreadsheets allow simultaneous changes charts changes are made the spreadsheets. Microsoft PowerPoint: Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program for producing slides, overheads, transparencies, and prints. The Company markets versions PowerPoint for Windows , Windows , and the Macintosh. Microsoft Project: Microsoft Project critical path project scheduling and resource allocation program that runs Windows , Windows , and Macintosh operating systems. The product can perform budgeting, monitoring, and cost estimating tool for large business projects and critical path and schedule planning tool. ONLINE SERVICES The MSN Division manages MSN, The Microsoft Network, new, interactive online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users wide range graphically-rich online content, compelling business model and platform for independent content providers (ICPs), and rich and powerful development tools. The Microsoft Network: Client-access software for MSN included feature Windows , which was released commercially August , . The online service provides access the Internet, electronic mail, bulletin boards, and myriad additional services offered Microsoft and independent content providers. The Microsoft Internet Explorer, Internet browser, takes advantage various technical advances Windows and includes real-time audio capabilities. Content and service providers aligned with MSN have flexibility creating products and pricing their services, such subscriptions, online transactions, and ticket events. Services may supported advertising and commerce. MSN owned The Microsoft Network, LLC (formerly the Microsoft Online Services Partnership). Microsoft owns % the entity and wholly owned subsidiary Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) owns the remaining %. CONSUMER PRODUCTS The Microsoft Consumer Division develops and markets useful, enjoyable, and fundamental software and services for small businesses, schools, and homes. The division developing and managing synergistic product line focusing the following categories consumer usage: Information, Productivity, Kids, Personal Finance, Entertainment, and Input Devices. Many the titles are available -ROM. Information: Reference titles include Microsoft Encarta( ) and Microsoft Bookshelf( ), which are both available for Windows and Macintosh operating systems. The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia database blends text articles with wealth innovative, interactive information presented through animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures. Bookshelf multimedia reference library that integrates seven well-respected and authoritative works one compact disc, including dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books quotations. Personal interest titles include Microsoft Cinemania( ), interactive guide the movies with entries for , films, Microsoft Dinosaurs, and many musical titles. Geography and travel products include Automap Road Atlas, comprehensive route-planning program with detailed maps and road information for routes North America. Productivity: The Company\' leading consumer productivity products are Microsoft Works and Microsoft Publisher. The Company markets versions Microsoft Works that run Windows , Windows , -DOS, and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Works integrated software program that contains basic word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. Microsoft Publisher easy- -use, entry-level desktop publishing tool for Windows and Windows operating systems. Publisher features interactive tool that automates the design process custom publications, including newsletters, calendars, greeting cards, and invitations. Kids: Titles for children include Microsoft Creative Writer and Microsoft Fine Artist. Creative Writer full-featured creative writing and publishing program; Fine Artist comprehensive art program. Both products take advantage the computer\' ability integrate text, high-quality graphics, sound, and animation produce enriching creative experience for children. The Company also has series products based the popular children\' books and television series, The Magic School Bus. Personal Finance: Microsoft Money financial organization product that allows users computerize their household finances. Microsoft Money available for systems running Windows and became available August , . visually appealing, easy use, and focuses the financial tasks that people most often. Microsoft Money provides enhanced online home-banking services with different banks the . Users who are customers participating banks will able pay bills online, access - -date statements and balances, transfer funds, and send email messages and inquiries their banks. Entertainment: The Company also has line entertainment products. Microsoft Flight Simulator, which was developed Bruce Artwick Organization Ltd., popular airplane-flying game available for -DOS and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Golf, licensed from Access Software, Inc., realistic simulation the sport golf for Windows and Windows operating systems. Input Devices: The Company\' major input device the Microsoft Mouse, hand-held pointing device that facilitates use . can used with -DOS, Windows , and Windows operating systems and works with many applications products from Microsoft and other companies. The Microsoft BallPoint( ) Mouse designed especially for use with laptop and notebook computers. The BallPoint Mouse shipped with universal clamp that fits the keyboards most laptop computers and positioner that allows the user adjust the angle the mouse the keyboard. The Company also designed and markets the Microsoft Natural Keyboard( ), ergonomically-designed keyboard. MICROSOFT PRESS Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and other software developers and about current developments the industry. Books published Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted independent authors who submit their manuscripts the Company for publication and who receive royalties based net revenues generated the book. Microsoft Press contracts with independent commercial printer for the manufacturing its books. Publisher\' Resources, Inc. acts the Company\' main fulfillment house the United States, maintaining the majority the inventory Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed independent sales representatives and Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous international agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution its books. Microsoft Press has granted publisher England the right distribute English language versions its books all countries except the United States, Canada, Central and South America, and certain Asian countries. most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with book\' manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution the translated version. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The software industry characterized extremely rapid technological change, which requires continuous and high level expenditures for enhancing existing products and developing new products. The Company committed continued high expenditures for research and product development. Most the Company\' software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third party development for certain products. Product documentation also created internally. Internal development enables Microsoft maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodology for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodology are also designed simplify product\' portability among different operating systems computers. The Company believes that crucial factor the success new product getting market quickly respond new user needs advances hardware design, without compromising product quality. The Company strives become informed possible the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. During fiscal years , , and , the Company spent $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively, product research and development activities. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, net revenues each those years. LOCALIZATION order best serve the needs users foreign countries, Microsoft "localizes" many its products reflect local languages and conventions. France, for example, all user messages and documentation are French and all monetary references are French francs, and the United Kingdom, monetary references are British pounds and user messages and documentation reflect certain British conventions. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. MANUFACTURING The Company has manufacturing facilities located the United States, Puerto Rico, and Ireland. The Company\' manufacturing operations involve disk replication, assembly purchased parts, and final packaging. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, finished disks, and other products. The chief materials and components used Microsoft products include disks -ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components. The Company contracts substantial portion its manufacturing activity third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various software products, documentation, and hardware such mouse pointing devices and keyboards. There are other custom manufacturers the event that outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current sources. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing people with three customer types: end users, organizations, and OEMs. The Company\' sales and marketing staff seeks build long-term relationships with these customers Microsoft products. Microsoft has four major channels distribution which deliver product end users: finished goods the . and Canada, Europe, and Other International; and OEM. The end user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target end users who make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use work home. All sales and marketing activities aimed end user customers are performed this unit, including developing and administering distributor and reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end user marketing programs; support policies; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. The key products licensed and sold are the Company\' personal operating systems and consumer and desktop applications. The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that target groups users organizations all sizes. The unit works with Solutions Providers, the Microsoft Consulting Services division, and directly with organizations create enterprise-wide solutions business computing problems. The unit\' sales and marketing activities include providing technical training Solutions Providers and channel resellers; developing support policies; and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training for resellers and Solutions Providers. Key products are the Company\' business systems, developer software, and software sold via volume licensing programs. the ., the organization customer unit further segregated into enterprise customer unit, which services only large organization customers, and more specialized unit which services small and medium customers. The OEM customer unit includes the sales force which works with original equipment manufacturers that include Microsoft software their PCs. FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS Distributors and Resellers: The Company markets its products the finished goods channels primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors include Computer , Ingram Micro, and Merisel. Resellers include Egghead Software, Softbank, Software Spectrum, and Stream International (formerly Corporate Software). Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. Large Accounts: The Company has program designed make easier for large organizations acquire and maintain Microsoft products. The program, Microsoft Select, offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially designed meet the needs large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end users large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with the Microsoft network large account resellers. Solutions Providers: Microsoft\' Solutions Providers program comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for business computing solutions. The program supports value-added resellers (VARs), system integrators, consultants, and developers, well technical support and training organizations. Under this business partnership strategy, the Company provides sales and product information, development services, early access Microsoft products, and customer support tools including priority telephone support, education, and business development support. ensure high-quality technical services for the Company\' products, Microsoft Solutions Providers are required have Microsoft-certified professionals staff. Consulting Services: The Company\' Consulting Services Division assists customers using the Company\' computer operating systems, applications, and communications products. The group works with Solutions Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large corporate accounts. Direct Marketing: Microsoft promotes some its products through direct marketing techniques directed toward existing and potential users the Company\' products. Promotional materials are typically delivered through the mail, utilizing lists targeted individuals. Fulfillment product the end user accomplished either direct shipment through resellers. International Sales Sites: The Company has established marketing, support, and distribution subsidiaries Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, the People\' Republic China, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, and Venezuela. The Company\' international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject certain risks common foreign operations general, such governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Microsoft hedges portion its foreign exchange risk. OEM CHANNEL The Company\' operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies Microsoft\' products with their computers. The Company also markets certain language and applications programs OEMs under similar arrangements. addition, the Company markets the Microsoft Mouse, BallPoint Mouse, and Natural Keyboard OEMs for distribution buyers their computers. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major microcomputer OEMs, including AST Research, Acer, Digital Equipment Corporation, Dell, Compaq, Gateway , Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NEC, Olivetti, Packard Bell, and Toshiba. ADVERTISING The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad consumer media (television, radio, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. Microsoft also invests heavily direct marketing and customer satisfaction areas. , the Company plans spend more than $ million broad campaign emphasizing the Microsoft brand identity. CUSTOMERS described above, Microsoft has three customer types: end users, organizations, and OEMs. Most end users Microsoft products are individuals businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and home. These end users obtain Microsoft products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their hardware. Notes Financial Statements describe customers that represent more than % the Company\' revenues. The Company\' practice ship its products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog not significant. PRODUCT SUPPORT SERVICES The Company\' Product Support Services group, with locations the . and various Microsoft subsidiaries, provides product support coverage options meet the needs users Microsoft products. The Company hires individuals with proven product expertise and provides them with productivity tools, continuous product education and training, and consistent processes deliver quality support for Microsoft products. Certain telephone support also supplied qualified third-party support organizations. Coverage options range from standard -charge toll telephone support fee-based offerings providing unlimited number telephone and electronic technical support across all Microsoft products hours per day, days per week. Users have access Microsoft KnowledgeBase, library thousands technical articles that updated regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Microsoft provides access KnowledgeBase via MSN, America Online, CompuServe( ), GEnie( ), Prodigy, and the Internet. Additionally, the Company offers two information subscription services: Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network. supplement alternative direct support, the Company enhances the third party support channel providing Microsoft Solutions Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solutions Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide wide spectrum multinational support, multivendor support, and integration services. COMPETITION The microcomputer software business intensely competitive and subject extremely rapid technological change. Microsoft faces formidable competition all areas its business activity, including competition from many companies whose revenues and resources are much larger than Microsoft\' . Operating systems. Microsoft\' operating systems products face substantial competition from number sources. Major competitors such IBM, Apple Computer, Digital Equipment Corporation, and others, which are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacture, have developed operating systems that they preinstall computers their own manufacture. Many these operating system software products are also licensed third party OEMs for preinstallation their machines. Microsoft\' operating systems products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from wide range companies including IBM, & , Hewlett Packard, Sun Microsystems, Novell, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants UNIX run wide variety computer platforms and are gaining increasing acceptance desktop operating systems. microcomputer technology increasingly moves toward connectivity and communications, Microsoft\' operating systems products will face increased competition from network server operating systems, such Novell NetWare, and "middleware" products such Lotus Notes from IBM. Microsoft\' operating systems products also face constant competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft\' copyrighted software products. Business systems. The Company fairly recent entrant into enterprise-wide computing solutions. such, competitors enjoy larger market shares and installed bases. Software developers that provide competing server applications include Oracle, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. Additionally, Lotus Development (now owned IBM) has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, which compete with the Company\' workgroup products. Desktop applications. The Company\' competitors include many software application vendors, such Lotus, Oracle, Claris, and Novell. Some the competitors this arena not offer products every major desktop application category ( ., spreadsheet, word processors, databases, etc.) and result may able more effectively focus their efforts enhancing particular product offerings. Online services. enormous range companies, including media conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and software developers, are competing make online services widely available computer users. Microsoft\' new online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from both established online networks, such CompuServe (owned & Block), Prodigy (owned IBM and Sears), America Online, and others, and impending entrants, such number new online networks that will offered & . MSN and other online networks also face competition from online services that are offered users directly via the Internet, including, particular, the World Wide Web portion the Internet. Additionally, Netscape, Adobe, Sun Microsystems, and many other companies offer software for Internet servers and for user navigation the Internet. Developer. The Company\' developer products compete against offerings from Sybase, Borland, and many other companies. Consumer. Microsoft\' Consumer division faces many smaller but focused competitors, particularly the areas entertainment and education. Examples include Intuit, Broderbund, Electronic Arts, Softkey, The Learning Company, Davidson Associates, Voyager, Comptons, Edmark, Sierra -Line, and Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such Walt Disney and Lucas Arts. Additionally, platforms become more powerful, -based games will compete head- -head with games created for proprietary systems such Nintendo and Sega. The Consumer Division\' input devices face substantial competition from computer manufactures, since computers are typically sold with keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers these devices. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors marketing software are the product\' reputation, features and functions, ease use, reliability, price relative performance, timeliness delivery, and availability and quality support services. There assurance that the Company\' competitive position will not adversely affected one more these factors the future, particularly view the fast pace technological change the software industry. EMPLOYEES June , , the Company employed , people, , domestically and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\' success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\' employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes that relations with its employees are excellent. ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located Redmond, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company constructing , square foot office building, which expected completed the spring . Additionally, construction continuing another series office buildings with approximately , square feet space. Occupancy this site will phased starting the fall and completed spring . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company\' domestic manufacturing and distribution operation consists , square foot facility situated acres nearby Snohomish County, Washington, and , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company\' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes , square foot office building for international localization. additional , square feet office space for localization being constructed Ireland. The Company owns , square foot office building seven acres land plus another acres near London, England. Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Notes Financial Statements -- Contingencies. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . ITEM . EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Support Robert . Herbold Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group Paul . Maritz Group Vice President, Platforms Group Nathan . Myhrvold Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group James . Allchin Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division Roger . Heinen, . Senior Vice President, Developer Division Joachim Kempin Senior Vice President, Worldwide OEM Sales Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division William . Neukom Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Jeffrey . Raikes Senior Vice President, North America Brad . Silverberg Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division Patricia . Stonesifer Senior Vice President, Consumer Division Bernard . Vergnes Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Support February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group May . was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group May . was named Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group May . was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November . had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . Prior joining Microsoft , . Allchin spent seven years Banyan Systems, Inc., where held numerous positions, most recently Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. . Heinen joined Microsoft Senior Vice President, Developer Division January . had been Senior Vice President and General Manager the Macintosh Software Division Apple Computer, Inc. from . Prior , Heinen was corporate consulting engineer for software Digital Equipment Corporation. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide OEM Sales August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin had served General Manager Microsoft\' German subsidiary since its inception . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division May . had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group December . Previously, . Mundie had been CEO Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy May , and was liquidated. . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President. . Neukom formerly was member the Seattle law firm Shidler McBroom Gates & Lucas (now Preston Gates & Ellis), Microsoft\' primary outside law firm. . Raikes was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January . had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes came Microsoft . . Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division November . joined Microsoft August Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division. From until joining Microsoft, . Silverberg served Vice President, Engineering for Borland International, Inc. . Stonesifer was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Division November , after having been Vice President, Consumer Division since June . She had been Vice President, Support since and General Manager Product Support Services since . Previously, she was General Manager Microsoft Canada and before that, General Manager for Microsoft Press. Prior joining Microsoft , . Stonesifer was with Que Corporation, publisher books for computer users. . Vergnes Senior Vice President Microsoft and was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes served General Manager Microsoft\' French subsidiary since its inception . . Brown was named Chief Financial Officer August and Vice President, Finance April . had been Treasurer since February , after joining Microsoft January . Previously, . Brown was partner the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, Microsoft\' independent auditors. PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Company\' common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. September , , there were , holders record the Company\' common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends its common stock. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND STOCK PRICE INFORMATION ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) QUARTER ENDED --------------------------------------------------------- SEPTEMBER DECEMBER MARCH JUNE YEAR ------------- ------------ --------- -------- ------ Net revenues........................ $ $ $ $ , $ , Operating income.................... , Net income.......................... Earnings per share.................. Common stock price per share: High.............................. Low............................... Net revenues........................ $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income.................... , Net income.......................... , Earnings per share.................. Common stock price per share: High.............................. Low............................... Net revenues........................ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income.................... , Net income.......................... , Earnings per share.................. Common stock price per share: High.............................. Low............................... ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE) YEAR ENDED JUNE -------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Net revenues.................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income.................................... , , Earnings per share............................ Return net revenues........................ % % % % % Cash and short-term investments............... $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets.................................. , , , , , Stockholders\' equity.......................... , , , , , ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR , , AND Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports wide range software products, including operating system platforms for personal computers (PCs), workstations, and servers; business and consumer applications for productivity, reference, education, and entertainment; and development tools. Microsoft also sells personal computer books and input devices, and engaged the research and development online and advanced technology software products. NET REVENUES Microsoft\' net revenues grew % the fiscal year ended June , and % fiscal year . Software license volume ( opposed price) increases have been the principal factor Microsoft revenue growth. The average selling price per license has decreased, primarily because general shifts the sales mix from retail packaged products licensing programs, from new products product upgrades, and from stand-alone desktop applications integrated product suites. Average revenue per license from original equipment manufacturer (OEM) licenses and corporate license programs, such Microsoft Select, lower than average revenue per license from retail versions. Likewise, product upgrades have lower prices than new products. Also, prices integrated suites, ., Microsoft Office, are less than the sum the prices for the individual programs included these products when such programs are licensed separately. Product groups. Microsoft has platforms product group and applications and content product group. Platforms product group revenues were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Principal personal systems products have been the -DOS and Microsoft Windows operating systems. -DOS preinstalled PCs most OEMs, and revenues from such licenses increased steadily both and . Revenues from retail upgrade versions -DOS decreased both and after strong increase when the -DOS Upgrade was released. There were major upgrades -DOS . The Microsoft Windows operating system was increasingly strong contributor revenues the number new PCs preinstalled with Windows increased rapidly during the three-year period. Windows units licensed new users were million, million, and million , , and . Business systems products offer enterprise-wide distributed client server environment based the Microsoft Windows operating system and the server applications the Microsoft BackOffice family products. Revenues from these products increased strongly and . Revenues from developer products increased steadily all three years, more independent software vendors, corporate developers, and solutions developers licensed tools develop software for Windows and Windows . Applications and content product group revenues were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Increases desktop applications revenues were led strong sales Microsoft Office. The Microsoft Office Standard product includes the Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, the Microsoft Word word processor, the Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program, and Microsoft Mail client-access license, while the Microsoft Office Professional version also includes the Microsoft Access database management system. Sales stand-alone versions Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word decreased and the sales mix continued shift integrated product suites. Microsoft Home, broad range consumer products, also showed continued growth. The Microsoft Home brand includes -ROM multimedia reference titles and software products for home and small office productivity, children\' creativity, and entertainment. Microsoft also markets the Microsoft Mouse and Microsoft Natural Keyboard. Mouse sales were flat during the three-year period, while the initial introduction the keyboard increased revenues . Sales channels. Microsoft distributes its products primarily through OEM licenses, corporate licenses, and retail packaged products. OEM channel revenues are license fees from original equipment manufacturers. Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: . and Canada, Europe, and elsewhere the world (Other International). Sales corporate licenses and packaged products these channels are primarily distributors and resellers. OEM channel revenues were $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . The primary source OEM revenues the licensing operating systems, particularly -DOS and Microsoft Windows. such, OEM channel revenues are highly dependent shipment volume. . and Canada channel revenues were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenues Europe were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Growth rates have been lower Europe than other geographic areas due general economic slowness, higher existing market shares, and more dramatic shift corporate licensing programs. Other International channel revenues were $ million , $ million , and $ million . Growth rates continue strong due customer acceptance newly localized products, particularly Japan, and early entrance into emerging markets. Microsoft\' operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % Microsoft\' revenues were collected foreign currencies during , , and . Since much Microsoft\' international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred local currencies, the impact exchange rates net income less than revenues. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost revenues. percentage revenues, cost revenues was % , % , and % . The percentage decreased due greater proportion licenses OEMs and corporations, lower disk prices from vendors, and higher proportion -ROM versions. These factors were offset somewhat increased sales lower-margin products such integrated suites and upgrades. Research and development. Microsoft made substantial investments & , and the rate growth accelerated . Expense increases resulted primarily from development staff headcount growth and higher levels third-party development costs many areas, including development efforts for Windows and The Microsoft Network. & costs also increased for business systems, consumer systems, desktop applications, and consumer products. Sales and marketing. The increase the absolute dollar amount sales and marketing expense was due primarily increased product-specific marketing programs, Microsoft brand advertising campaign, and continued expansion Product Support Services. , sales and marketing expenses increased slower rate than revenues due concerted performance orientation all sales sites. General and administrative. Increases general and administrative expenses and were primarily attributable higher legal costs and growth the computer systems and the number people necessary support overall increases the scope Microsoft\' operations. NONOPERATING ITEMS Interest income, which was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , increased primarily result larger investment portfolio generated cash from operations. the fourth quarter , Microsoft paid $ million breakup fee Intuit Inc. connection with the termination planned merger. the third quarter , Microsoft recorded $ million charge reflect the estimated impact jury verdict the Stac Electronics patent litigation and related expenses. June , Microsoft reached agreement with Stac settle the litigation and adjusted its estimate accordingly, resulting credit $ million the fourth quarter and net pretax charge $ million for . PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The effective tax rate increased from % % and % primarily because increase the . statutory income tax rate. NET INCOME Net income percent revenues decreased due increased relative research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, offset the lower relative cost revenues and the higher relative net nonoperating income. The net income percentage decreased , primarily due the patent litigation charge and increased research and development expenses, offset the lower relative level sales and marketing expenses. FINANCIAL CONDITION Microsoft\' cash and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , . The portfolio diversified among security types, industries, and individual issuers. Microsoft\' investments are investment grade and liquid. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions anticipation continued international expansion. Microsoft\' portfolio invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment the event immediate cash needs. Microsoft has material long-term debt. Microsoft has $ million standby multicurrency lines credit that support foreign currency hedging and international cash management. Stockholders\' equity June , exceeded $ billion. Cash generated from operations has been sufficient historically fund Microsoft\' investment research and development activities and facilities expansion. Microsoft grows, investments will continue research and development existing and advanced areas technology. Microsoft\' cash will also used acquire technology and fund ventures and other strategic opportunities. Additions property, plant, and equipment are expected continue, including facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. For example, June , , commitments related the construction new buildings approximated $ million. The exercise stock options employees provides additional cash. These proceeds have been used Microsoft\' open market stock repurchase program through which Microsoft provides shares for stock option and stock purchase plans. This program will continue . During , enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft sold equity put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitle the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock Microsoft certain dates specified prices. Also during , subsidiary Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) purchased % minority interest the newly formed Microsoft Online Services Partnership. TCI contributed $ million TCI common stock, and Microsoft contributed the business assets its online service, The Microsoft Network, which was development. Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations will sufficient meet operating requirements . Microsoft\' cash and short-term investments are also managed available for strategic investment opportunities other potential large-scale cash needs that may arise pursuit Microsoft\' long-term strategies. Microsoft shareholders have also authorized the issuance million shares preferred stock, which may used for any proper corporate purpose. Microsoft has not paid cash dividends its common stock. OUTLOOK AND UNCERTAINTIES Microsoft does not provide forecasts potential future financial performance. While management Microsoft optimistic about Microsoft\' long-term prospects, the following issues and uncertainties, among others, should considered evaluating its growth outlook. Rapid technological change. The personal computer software industry characterized rapid technological change and uncertainty the impact emerging areas such the Internet and online services, the information highway, networked collaboration products, and electronic commerce. Long-term investment cycle. Developing and localizing software expensive and the investment product development often involves long payback cycle. Microsoft\' plans for include significant investments software research and development and related product opportunities from which significant revenues are not anticipated for number years. Management expects total spending for research and development increase over spending . Customer acceptance. While Microsoft performs extensive usability and beta testing new products, user acceptance and corporate penetration rates ultimately dictate the success development and marketing efforts products such Windows , Microsoft Office for Windows , the Microsoft BackOffice family products. Product ship schedules. Delays the release new products can cause operational inefficiencies that impact manufacturing and distribution logistics, independent software vendor (ISV) and OEM relationships, and telephone support staffing. Prices. Future prices Microsoft able obtain for its products may decrease from historical levels depending competitive market cost factors. Prices software Europe are generally higher than the . cover localization costs and higher costs distribution. Such price uplifts could erode the future. Integrated suites. The price integrated suites such Microsoft Office, less than the sum the prices for the individual programs included this product when such programs are licensed separately. Revenues from Microsoft Office may continue increase percentage total revenues. Saturation. Product upgrades, enabling users upgrade from earlier versions Microsoft\' products from competitors\' products, have lower prices and margins than new products. the desktop applications market becomes saturated, the sales mix shifts from standard products upgrade products. This trend expected continue. Channel mix. Average revenue per license lower from OEM licenses than from retail versions, reflecting the relatively lower direct costs operations the OEM channel. increasingly higher percentage revenues was achieved through the OEM channel during and . Corporate licenses. Average revenue per unit from corporate license programs lower than average revenue per unit from retail versions shipped through the finished goods channels. Unit sales under corporate licensing programs may continue increase. Cost revenues. Although cost revenues percentage net revenues decreased and , varies with channel mix and product mix within channels. Changes channel and product mix, including the potential retail upgrade cycle Windows , may increase cost revenues percentage net revenues . Sales and marketing and support investments. Microsoft\' plans for include continued investments its sales and marketing and support groups. Microsoft brand advertising also expected increase. Foreign exchange. large percentage Microsoft\' sales and costs manufacturing and marketing are transacted local currencies. result, Microsoft\' international results operations are subject foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Intellectual property rights. Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying software represents loss revenues Microsoft. While this adversely affects . revenues, revenue loss even more significant outside the ., particularly certain countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, Microsoft actively educates consumers the benefits licensing genuine products and educates lawmakers the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. There can assurance that continued efforts will affect revenues positively. Future growth rates. substantial number users upgrade Windows , revenue growth rates the initial shipping quarters could relatively high levels. Revenue growth rates the comparable quarters may not approach such levels. discussed above, operating expenses are expected increase . Because the fixed nature significant portion such expenses, coupled with the possibility slower revenue growth, operating margins may decrease from those . Litigation. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and copyrights increasing the software industry. addition, there are government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate legal risks. ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statements for the three years ended June , ............................... Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , ........................... Balance Sheets June , and ............................................. Stockholders\' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , ................. Notes Financial Statements........................................................... Independent Auditors\' Report............................................................ Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the three years ended June , .................................................................................. ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES None. INCOME STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE) YEAR ENDED JUNE ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ Net revenues..................................................... $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenues............................................... Research and development....................................... Sales and marketing............................................ , , , General and administrative..................................... ------ ------ ------ Total operating expenses............................... , , , ------ ------ ------ Operating income................................................. , , , Interest income -- net........................................... Noncontinuing items.............................................. -- ( ) ( ) Other expenses................................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Income before income taxes....................................... , , , Provision for income taxes....................................... ------ ------ ------ Net income....................................................... $ $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Earnings per share............................................... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== Weighted average shares outstanding.............................. ====== ====== ====== See accompanying notes. CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS) YEAR ENDED JUNE ------------------------------ ------ ------- ------- CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS Net income................................................... $ $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization................................ Current liabilities.......................................... Accounts receivable.......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories.................................................. ( ) Other current assets......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------- ------- Net cash from operations............................. , , , ------ ------- ------- CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING Common stock issued.......................................... Common stock repurchased..................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock option income tax benefits............................. ------ ------- ------- Net cash from financing.............................. ( ) ------ ------- ------- CASH FLOWS USED FOR INVESTMENTS Additions property, plant, and equipment.................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets................................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Short-term investments....................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------- ------- Net cash used for investments........................ ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ------ ------- ------- Net change cash and equivalents............................. Effect exchange rates cash............................... ( ) ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year........................ , , ------ ------- ------- Cash and equivalents, end year.............................. , , , Short-term investments......................................... , , , ------ ------- ------- Cash and short-term investments................................ $ , $ , $ , ====== ======= ======= See accompanying notes. BALANCE SHEETS ( MILLIONS) JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ ASSETS Current assets: Cash and short-term investments.......................................... $ , $ , Accounts receivable -- net allowances $ and $ ................. Inventories.............................................................. Other.................................................................... ------ ------ Total current assets............................................. , , Property, plant, and equipment -- net...................................... , Other assets............................................................... ------ ------ Total assets................................................ $ , $ , ====== ====== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable......................................................... $ $ Accrued compensation..................................................... Income taxes payable..................................................... Other.................................................................... ------ ------ Total current liabilities........................................ , ------ ------ Minority interest.......................................................... -- ------ ------ Put warrants............................................................... -- ------ ------ Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Common stock and paid- capital -- shares authorized , ; issued and outstanding and .................................... , , Retained earnings........................................................ , , ------ ------ Total stockholders\' equity....................................... , , ------ ------ Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity.................. $ , $ , ====== ====== See accompanying notes. STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS) YEAR ENDED JUNE ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ COMMON STOCK AND PAID- CAPITAL Balance, beginning year..................................... $ $ , $ , Common stock issued............................................ Common stock repurchased....................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sale put warrants............................. -- -- Reclassification put warrant obligation..................... -- -- ( ) Stock option income tax benefits............................... ------ ------ ------ Balance, end year................................... , , , ------ ------ ------ RETAINED EARNINGS Balance, beginning year..................................... , , , Common stock repurchased....................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Reclassification put warrant obligation..................... -- -- ( ) Net income..................................................... , , Translation adjustment......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Balance, end year................................... , , , ------ ------ ------ Total stockholders\' equity........................ $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== See accompanying notes. NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principles consolidation. The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Foreign currencies. Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies the books foreign subsidiaries are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited equity. Revenues, costs, and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses foreign currency transactions are included other expenses. Revenue recognition. Revenue from sales distributors and resellers recognized when related products are shipped. Revenue from corporate license programs generally recognized when the product installed the user. Finished goods revenue attributable significant support (telephone support and specified and unspecified enhancements) recognized when such obligations are fulfilled. Costs related insignificant obligations, which includes telephone support for certain products, are accrued. Revenue from products licensed original equipment manufacturers recognized when the licensed products are shipped the OEM. Revenue from software maintenance, service, and support contracts recognized ratably over the contract period. Provisions are recorded for returns and bad debts. Research and development. Research and development costs are expensed incurred. The current accounting rule, Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed, does not materially affect the Company. Telephone support. Telephone support costs are included sales and marketing. Income taxes. Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus accrual for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect this difference reported deferred income taxes. Tax credits are accounted for reduction tax expense the year which the credits reduce taxes payable. Earnings per share. Earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding stock options, computed using the treasury stock method. Financial instruments. The Company considers all liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months and three years from the purchase date. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale. Cost approximates market value for all classifications cash and short-term investments; realized and unrealized gains and losses are not material. Statement Financial Accounting Standard Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities was adopted and did not have material impact the financial statements. Inventories. Inventories are stated the lower cost market. Cost determined using the first- , first-out method. Property, plant, and equipment. Property, plant, and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method. Estimated lives are follows: buildings, years; leasehold improvements, the lease term; computer equipment and other, principally three years. NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) Diversification risk. The Company\' investment portfolio diversified and consists short-term investment grade securities. June , and , approximately % accounts receivable represented amounts due from ten channel purchasers. Two these each accounted for approximately %, %, and % revenues , , and . Finished goods sales international customers Europe, Japan, Australia, and Canada are primarily billed local currencies. Payment cycles are relatively short, generally less than days. European manufacturing costs and international selling, distribution, and support costs are generally disbursed local currencies. Local currency cash balances excess short-term operating needs are generally converted into . dollar cash and short-term investments upon receipt. Therefore, foreign exchange rate fluctuations generally not create risk material transaction gains losses. result, Microsoft\' hedging activities for transaction exposures have been minimal. material hedge contracts were outstanding June , . Translated results operations the Company\' foreign subsidiaries are affected foreign exchange rates. During and for , the Company hedged percentage planned translated international finished goods revenues purchasing options the applicable currencies. Premiums paid for the options, which were not material, are being amortized over the lives the options. Any gains will recognized when and realized. Reclassifications. Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent presentation. CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ Cash and equivalents: Cash..................................................... $ $ Commercial paper......................................... , Money market preferreds.................................. Certificates deposit.................................. Bank loan participations................................. ------ ------ Cash and equivalents..................................... , , ------ ------ Short-term investments: Municipal securities..................................... , , Corporate notes and bonds................................ . Treasury securities................................. Commercial paper......................................... ------ ------ Short-term investments................................... , , ------ ------ Cash and short-term investments.................. $ , $ , ====== ====== PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ Land....................................................... $ $ Buildings.................................................. Computer equipment......................................... Other...................................................... ------ ------ Property, plant, and equipment -- cost.................. , , Accumulated depreciation................................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ Property, plant, and equipment -- net...................... $ $ , ====== ====== NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes was composed : ------ ------ ------ Current taxes: . and state................................. $ $ $ International.................................. ---- ---- ---- Current taxes.................................. Deferred taxes................................... ( ) ---- ---- ---- Provision for income taxes....................... $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== Differences between the . statutory and effective tax rates were: ------ ------ ------ . statutory rate.............................. % % % Tax exempt income................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign sales corporation........................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax credits...................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) State taxes and other -- net..................... ---- ---- ---- Effective tax rate............................... % % % ==== ==== ==== Deferred income tax balances were: JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items.................................. $ $ Expense items.................................. ----- ----- Deferred income tax assets..................... ----- ----- Deferred income tax liabilities: International earnings......................... ( ) ( ) Other.......................................... ( ) ( ) ----- ----- Deferred income tax liabilities................ ( ) ( ) ----- ----- Net deferred income tax asset............. $ $ ===== ===== . and international components income before income taxes were: ------ ------ ------ .............................................. $ $ , $ , International.................................... ------ ------ ------ Income before income taxes....................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== The Internal Revenue Service examining the Company\' . income tax returns for and . The Company believes any adjustments from the examination will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) COMMON STOCK Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ---- ---- ---- Balance, beginning year.............................. Issued.................................................. Repurchased............................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) --- --- --- Balance, end year.................................... === === === The Company repurchases its common stock the open market provide shares for issuance employees under stock option and stock purchase plans. The Company\' Board Directors authorized continuation this program . PUT WARRANTS connection with the Company\' stock repurchase program, put warrants were sold independent third parties during . The put warrants entitle the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock the Company specified prices. June , , million warrants were outstanding with strike price $ per share. The warrants expire various dates between February and November , are exercisable only maturity, and are settleable cash Microsoft\' option. The maximum potential repurchase obligation $ million has been reclassified from stockholders\' equity put warrants June , . There was impact earnings per share . EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Employee stock purchase plan. The Company has employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares the Company\' common stock may purchased six-month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and , employees purchased million, million, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings plan. The Company has savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, participating . employees may defer % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar contributed participant, with maximum contribution % participant\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the savings plan were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Stock option plans. The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers, and all employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options. The Board Directors determines the option price (not less than fair market value for incentive options) the date grant. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted during and after generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest over seven and one-half years and expire after ten years. June , , options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) Stock options outstanding were follows: PRICE PER SHARE ------------------------- WEIGHTED NUMBER RANGE AVERAGE ------ ------------ -------- Balance, June , ..................... $ - $ Granted.................................... - Exercised.................................. ( ) - Canceled................................... ( ) - ----- Balance, June , ..................... - Granted.................................... - Exercised.................................. ( ) - Canceled................................... ( ) - ----- Balance, June , ..................... - Granted.................................... - Exercised.................................. ( ) - Canceled................................... ( ) - ----- Balance, June , ..................... - ===== LEASES The Company has operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . THE MICROSOFT NETWORK During , wholly owned subsidiary Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) purchased % minority interest the newly formed Microsoft Online Services Partnership. TCI contributed $ million TCI common stock and Microsoft contributed the business assets its online service, The Microsoft Network, which was development. Microsoft owns % the entity, whose operations have not been material the financial results Microsoft. The entity was subsequently reorganized into The Microsoft Network, LLC. NONCONTINUING ITEMS the fourth quarter , the Company paid $ million breakup fee Intuit Inc. connection with the termination planned merger. the third quarter , the Company recorded $ million charge reflect the estimated impact jury verdict the Stac Electronics patent litigation and related expenses. June , the Company reached agreement with Stac settle the litigation and adjusted its estimate accordingly, resulting credit $ million the fourth quarter and net pretax charge $ million for . CONTINGENCIES July , , Microsoft and the . Department Justice (DOJ) entered into consent decree resolving the DOJ\' non-public investigation Microsoft. the consent decree, which involves admission wrongdoing Microsoft\' part, Microsoft agreed make certain changes its OEM licensing practices. Microsoft also agreed employ uniform duration its nondisclosure agreement for precommercial versions NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) certain operating system products, and clarified the rights and responsibilities those signing such nondisclosure agreements. The consent decree was approved the . District Court for the District Columbia August , . The Antitrust Division the DOJ has stated that conducting investigation concerning Microsoft\' inclusion client-access software for The Microsoft Network Windows . Although there assurance that this matter will resolved favorably and that Microsoft\' future financial statements will not adversely affected, Microsoft currently believes that resolution this matter will not have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. INFORMATION GEOGRAPHIC AREA ------ ------ ------ Net revenues . operations................................ $ , $ , $ , European operations............................ , , , Other international operations................. Eliminations................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Total net revenues..................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Operating income . operations................................ $ $ , $ , European operations............................ Other international operations................. Eliminations................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Total operating income................. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Identifiable assets . operations................................ $ , $ , $ , European operations............................ , , , Other international operations................. Eliminations................................... ( ) ( ) ( , ) ------ ------ ------ Total identifiable assets.............. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Intercompany sales between geographic areas are accounted for prices representative unaffiliated party transactions. " . operations" include shipments customers the ., licensing OEMs, and exports finished goods directly international customers, primarily Canada, South America, and Asia. Exports and international OEM transactions are primarily . dollars and totaled $ million, $ million, and $ , million , , and . "Other international operations" primarily include subsidiaries Australia, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. International revenues, which include European operations, other international operations, exports, and OEM distribution, were %, %, and % total revenues , , and . INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\' REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , the related statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\' equity for each the three years ended June , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item . These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years ended June , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion the financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , (August , Contingencies Note) PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held October , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Information with respect Executive Officers may found pages and hereof, under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant." ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements Microsoft set forth under Item are filed part this report. Supplemental Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts filed page this report. Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. The independent auditors\' report with respect the above-listed financial statements and schedule appears page this report. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------ ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation( ) Bylaws( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisor( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington( ) Form Indemnification Agreement( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Two Years Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , - --------------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS ( MILLIONS) YEAR ENDED JUNE ---------------------- ---- ---- ---- Balance, beginning year............................................ $ $ $ Additions charged expense.......................................... Deductions............................................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- Balance, end year.................................................. $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / MICHAEL . BROWN ------------------------------------ Michael . Brown, Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / WILLIAM . GATES Chairman the Board Directors - --------------------------------------------- and Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / PAUL . ALLEN Director - --------------------------------------------- Paul . Allen / / RICHARD . HACKBORN Director - --------------------------------------------- Richard . Hackborn / / DAVID . MARQUARDT Director - --------------------------------------------- David . Marquardt / / ROBERT . \'BRIEN Director - --------------------------------------------- Robert . \'Brien Director - --------------------------------------------- . . Reed, . / / JON . SHIRLEY Director - --------------------------------------------- Jon . Shirley / / MICHAEL . BROWN Vice President, Finance; - --------------------------------------------- Chief Financial Officer Michael . Brown (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "PROPERTIES The Company' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located Redmond, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company constructing , square foot office building, which expected completed the spring . Additionally, construction continuing another series office buildings with approximately , square feet space. Occupancy this site will phased starting the fall and completed spring . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company' domestic manufacturing and distribution operation consists , square foot facility situated acres nearby Snohomish County, Washington, and , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes , square foot office building for international localization. additional , square feet office space for localization being constructed Ireland. The Company owns , square foot office building seven acres land plus another acres near London, England. Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. ", 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Notes Financial Statements -- Contingencies. ', 'item 4. ': "SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . ITEM . EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Support Robert . Herbold Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group Paul . Maritz Group Vice President, Platforms Group Nathan . Myhrvold Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group James . Allchin Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division Roger . Heinen, . Senior Vice President, Developer Division Joachim Kempin Senior Vice President, Worldwide OEM Sales Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division William . Neukom Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Jeffrey . Raikes Senior Vice President, North America Brad . Silverberg Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division Patricia . Stonesifer Senior Vice President, Consumer Division Bernard . Vergnes Senior Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Support February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & ' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group May . was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms Group May . was named Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content Group May . was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November . had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . Prior joining Microsoft , . Allchin spent seven years Banyan Systems, Inc., where held numerous positions, most recently Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. . Heinen joined Microsoft Senior Vice President, Developer Division January . had been Senior Vice President and General Manager the Macintosh Software Division Apple Computer, Inc. from . Prior , Heinen was corporate consulting engineer for software Digital Equipment Corporation. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide OEM Sales August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin had served General Manager Microsoft' German subsidiary since its inception . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems Division May . had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group December . Previously, . Mundie had been CEO Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy May , and was liquidated. . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President. . Neukom formerly was member the Seattle law firm Shidler McBroom Gates & Lucas (now Preston Gates & Ellis), Microsoft' primary outside law firm. . Raikes was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January . had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes came Microsoft . . Silverberg was named Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Division November . joined Microsoft August Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division. From until joining Microsoft, . Silverberg served Vice President, Engineering for Borland International, Inc. . Stonesifer was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Division November , after having been Vice President, Consumer Division since June . She had been Vice President, Support since and General Manager Product Support Services since . Previously, she was General Manager Microsoft Canada and before that, General Manager for Microsoft Press. Prior joining Microsoft , . Stonesifer was with Que Corporation, publisher books for computer users. . Vergnes Senior Vice President Microsoft and was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes served General Manager Microsoft' French subsidiary since its inception . . Brown was named Chief Financial Officer August and Vice President, Finance April . had been Treasurer since February , after joining Microsoft January . Previously, . Brown was partner the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, Microsoft' independent auditors. PART ", 'item 5. ': "MARKET FOR REGISTRANT' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Company' common stock traded The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. September , , there were , holders record the Company' common stock. The Company has not paid cash dividends its common stock. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND STOCK PRICE INFORMATION ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) QUARTER ENDED --------------------------------------------------------- SEPTEMBER DECEMBER MARCH JUNE YEAR ------------- ------------ --------- -------- ------ Net revenues........................ $ $ $ $ , $ , Operating income.................... , Net income.......................... Earnings per share.................. Common stock price per share: High.............................. Low............................... Net revenues........................ $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income.................... , Net income.......................... , Earnings per share.................. Common stock price per share: High.............................. Low............................... Net revenues........................ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income.................... , Net income.......................... , Earnings per share.................. Common stock price per share: High.............................. Low............................... ", 'item 6. ': "SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE) YEAR ENDED JUNE -------------------------------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Net revenues.................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income.................................... , , Earnings per share............................ Return net revenues........................ % % % % % Cash and short-term investments............... $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets.................................. , , , , , Stockholders' equity.......................... , , , , , ", 'item 7. ': "MANAGEMENT' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR , , AND Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, sells, and supports wide range software products, including operating system platforms for personal computers (PCs), workstations, and servers; business and consumer applications for productivity, reference, education, and entertainment; and development tools. Microsoft also sells personal computer books and input devices, and engaged the research and development online and advanced technology software products. NET REVENUES Microsoft' net revenues grew % the fiscal year ended June , and % fiscal year . Software license volume ( opposed price) increases have been the principal factor Microsoft revenue growth. The average selling price per license has decreased, primarily because general shifts the sales mix from retail packaged products licensing programs, from new products product upgrades, and from stand-alone desktop applications integrated product suites. Average revenue per license from original equipment manufacturer (OEM) licenses and corporate license programs, such Microsoft Select, lower than average revenue per license from retail versions. Likewise, product upgrades have lower prices than new products. Also, prices integrated suites, ., Microsoft Office, are less than the sum the prices for the individual programs included these products when such programs are licensed separately. Product groups. Microsoft has platforms product group and applications and content product group. Platforms product group revenues were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Principal personal systems products have been the -DOS and Microsoft Windows operating systems. -DOS preinstalled PCs most OEMs, and revenues from such licenses increased steadily both and . Revenues from retail upgrade versions -DOS decreased both and after strong increase when the -DOS Upgrade was released. There were major upgrades -DOS . The Microsoft Windows operating system was increasingly strong contributor revenues the number new PCs preinstalled with Windows increased rapidly during the three-year period. Windows units licensed new users were million, million, and million , , and . Business systems products offer enterprise-wide distributed client server environment based the Microsoft Windows operating system and the server applications the Microsoft BackOffice family products. Revenues from these products increased strongly and . Revenues from developer products increased steadily all three years, more independent software vendors, corporate developers, and solutions developers licensed tools develop software for Windows and Windows . Applications and content product group revenues were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Increases desktop applications revenues were led strong sales Microsoft Office. The Microsoft Office Standard product includes the Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, the Microsoft Word word processor, the Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program, and Microsoft Mail client-access license, while the Microsoft Office Professional version also includes the Microsoft Access database management system. Sales stand-alone versions Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Word decreased and the sales mix continued shift integrated product suites. Microsoft Home, broad range consumer products, also showed continued growth. The Microsoft Home brand includes -ROM multimedia reference titles and software products for home and small office productivity, children' creativity, and entertainment. Microsoft also markets the Microsoft Mouse and Microsoft Natural Keyboard. Mouse sales were flat during the three-year period, while the initial introduction the keyboard increased revenues . Sales channels. Microsoft distributes its products primarily through OEM licenses, corporate licenses, and retail packaged products. OEM channel revenues are license fees from original equipment manufacturers. Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: . and Canada, Europe, and elsewhere the world (Other International). Sales corporate licenses and packaged products these channels are primarily distributors and resellers. OEM channel revenues were $ million , $ billion , and $ billion . The primary source OEM revenues the licensing operating systems, particularly -DOS and Microsoft Windows. such, OEM channel revenues are highly dependent shipment volume. . and Canada channel revenues were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Revenues Europe were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion , , and . Growth rates have been lower Europe than other geographic areas due general economic slowness, higher existing market shares, and more dramatic shift corporate licensing programs. Other International channel revenues were $ million , $ million , and $ million . Growth rates continue strong due customer acceptance newly localized products, particularly Japan, and early entrance into emerging markets. Microsoft' operating results are affected foreign exchange rates. Approximately %, %, and % Microsoft' revenues were collected foreign currencies during , , and . Since much Microsoft' international manufacturing costs and operating expenses are also incurred local currencies, the impact exchange rates net income less than revenues. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost revenues. percentage revenues, cost revenues was % , % , and % . The percentage decreased due greater proportion licenses OEMs and corporations, lower disk prices from vendors, and higher proportion -ROM versions. These factors were offset somewhat increased sales lower-margin products such integrated suites and upgrades. Research and development. Microsoft made substantial investments & , and the rate growth accelerated . Expense increases resulted primarily from development staff headcount growth and higher levels third-party development costs many areas, including development efforts for Windows and The Microsoft Network. & costs also increased for business systems, consumer systems, desktop applications, and consumer products. Sales and marketing. The increase the absolute dollar amount sales and marketing expense was due primarily increased product-specific marketing programs, Microsoft brand advertising campaign, and continued expansion Product Support Services. , sales and marketing expenses increased slower rate than revenues due concerted performance orientation all sales sites. General and administrative. Increases general and administrative expenses and were primarily attributable higher legal costs and growth the computer systems and the number people necessary support overall increases the scope Microsoft' operations. NONOPERATING ITEMS Interest income, which was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , increased primarily result larger investment portfolio generated cash from operations. the fourth quarter , Microsoft paid $ million breakup fee Intuit Inc. connection with the termination planned merger. the third quarter , Microsoft recorded $ million charge reflect the estimated impact jury verdict the Stac Electronics patent litigation and related expenses. June , Microsoft reached agreement with Stac settle the litigation and adjusted its estimate accordingly, resulting credit $ million the fourth quarter and net pretax charge $ million for . PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The effective tax rate increased from % % and % primarily because increase the . statutory income tax rate. NET INCOME Net income percent revenues decreased due increased relative research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, offset the lower relative cost revenues and the higher relative net nonoperating income. The net income percentage decreased , primarily due the patent litigation charge and increased research and development expenses, offset the lower relative level sales and marketing expenses. FINANCIAL CONDITION Microsoft' cash and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , . The portfolio diversified among security types, industries, and individual issuers. Microsoft' investments are investment grade and liquid. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency positions anticipation continued international expansion. Microsoft' portfolio invested short-term securities minimize interest rate risk and facilitate rapid deployment the event immediate cash needs. Microsoft has material long-term debt. Microsoft has $ million standby multicurrency lines credit that support foreign currency hedging and international cash management. Stockholders' equity June , exceeded $ billion. Cash generated from operations has been sufficient historically fund Microsoft' investment research and development activities and facilities expansion. Microsoft grows, investments will continue research and development existing and advanced areas technology. Microsoft' cash will also used acquire technology and fund ventures and other strategic opportunities. Additions property, plant, and equipment are expected continue, including facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. For example, June , , commitments related the construction new buildings approximated $ million. The exercise stock options employees provides additional cash. These proceeds have been used Microsoft' open market stock repurchase program through which Microsoft provides shares for stock option and stock purchase plans. This program will continue . During , enhance its stock repurchase program, Microsoft sold equity put warrants independent third parties. These put warrants entitle the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock Microsoft certain dates specified prices. Also during , subsidiary Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) purchased % minority interest the newly formed Microsoft Online Services Partnership. TCI contributed $ million TCI common stock, and Microsoft contributed the business assets its online service, The Microsoft Network, which was development. Management believes existing cash and short-term investments together with funds generated from operations will sufficient meet operating requirements . Microsoft' cash and short-term investments are also managed available for strategic investment opportunities other potential large-scale cash needs that may arise pursuit Microsoft' long-term strategies. Microsoft shareholders have also authorized the issuance million shares preferred stock, which may used for any proper corporate purpose. Microsoft has not paid cash dividends its common stock. OUTLOOK AND UNCERTAINTIES Microsoft does not provide forecasts potential future financial performance. While management Microsoft optimistic about Microsoft' long-term prospects, the following issues and uncertainties, among others, should considered evaluating its growth outlook. Rapid technological change. The personal computer software industry characterized rapid technological change and uncertainty the impact emerging areas such the Internet and online services, the information highway, networked collaboration products, and electronic commerce. Long-term investment cycle. Developing and localizing software expensive and the investment product development often involves long payback cycle. Microsoft' plans for include significant investments software research and development and related product opportunities from which significant revenues are not anticipated for number years. Management expects total spending for research and development increase over spending . Customer acceptance. While Microsoft performs extensive usability and beta testing new products, user acceptance and corporate penetration rates ultimately dictate the success development and marketing efforts products such Windows , Microsoft Office for Windows , the Microsoft BackOffice family products. Product ship schedules. Delays the release new products can cause operational inefficiencies that impact manufacturing and distribution logistics, independent software vendor (ISV) and OEM relationships, and telephone support staffing. Prices. Future prices Microsoft able obtain for its products may decrease from historical levels depending competitive market cost factors. Prices software Europe are generally higher than the . cover localization costs and higher costs distribution. Such price uplifts could erode the future. Integrated suites. The price integrated suites such Microsoft Office, less than the sum the prices for the individual programs included this product when such programs are licensed separately. Revenues from Microsoft Office may continue increase percentage total revenues. Saturation. Product upgrades, enabling users upgrade from earlier versions Microsoft' products from competitors' products, have lower prices and margins than new products. the desktop applications market becomes saturated, the sales mix shifts from standard products upgrade products. This trend expected continue. Channel mix. Average revenue per license lower from OEM licenses than from retail versions, reflecting the relatively lower direct costs operations the OEM channel. increasingly higher percentage revenues was achieved through the OEM channel during and . Corporate licenses. Average revenue per unit from corporate license programs lower than average revenue per unit from retail versions shipped through the finished goods channels. Unit sales under corporate licensing programs may continue increase. Cost revenues. Although cost revenues percentage net revenues decreased and , varies with channel mix and product mix within channels. Changes channel and product mix, including the potential retail upgrade cycle Windows , may increase cost revenues percentage net revenues . Sales and marketing and support investments. Microsoft' plans for include continued investments its sales and marketing and support groups. Microsoft brand advertising also expected increase. Foreign exchange. large percentage Microsoft' sales and costs manufacturing and marketing are transacted local currencies. result, Microsoft' international results operations are subject foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Intellectual property rights. Microsoft diligently defends its intellectual property rights, but unlicensed copying software represents loss revenues Microsoft. While this adversely affects . revenues, revenue loss even more significant outside the ., particularly certain countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Throughout the world, Microsoft actively educates consumers the benefits licensing genuine products and educates lawmakers the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. There can assurance that continued efforts will affect revenues positively. Future growth rates. substantial number users upgrade Windows , revenue growth rates the initial shipping quarters could relatively high levels. Revenue growth rates the comparable quarters may not approach such levels. discussed above, operating expenses are expected increase . Because the fixed nature significant portion such expenses, coupled with the possibility slower revenue growth, operating margins may decrease from those . Litigation. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights, patents, and copyrights increasing the software industry. addition, there are government regulation and investigation risks along with other general corporate legal risks. ", 'item 7a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 8. ': "FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statements for the three years ended June , ............................... Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , ........................... Balance Sheets June , and ............................................. Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , ................. Notes Financial Statements........................................................... Independent Auditors' Report............................................................ Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the three years ended June , .................................................................................. ", 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES None. INCOME STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT EARNINGS PER SHARE) YEAR ENDED JUNE ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ Net revenues..................................................... $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenues............................................... Research and development....................................... Sales and marketing............................................ , , , General and administrative..................................... ------ ------ ------ Total operating expenses............................... , , , ------ ------ ------ Operating income................................................. , , , Interest income -- net........................................... Noncontinuing items.............................................. -- ( ) ( ) Other expenses................................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Income before income taxes....................................... , , , Provision for income taxes....................................... ------ ------ ------ Net income....................................................... $ $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Earnings per share............................................... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== Weighted average shares outstanding.............................. ====== ====== ====== See accompanying notes. CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS) YEAR ENDED JUNE ------------------------------ ------ ------- ------- CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS Net income................................................... $ $ , $ , Depreciation and amortization................................ Current liabilities.......................................... Accounts receivable.......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories.................................................. ( ) Other current assets......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------- ------- Net cash from operations............................. , , , ------ ------- ------- CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING Common stock issued.......................................... Common stock repurchased..................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock option income tax benefits............................. ------ ------- ------- Net cash from financing.............................. ( ) ------ ------- ------- CASH FLOWS USED FOR INVESTMENTS Additions property, plant, and equipment.................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets................................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Short-term investments....................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------- ------- Net cash used for investments........................ ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ------ ------- ------- Net change cash and equivalents............................. Effect exchange rates cash............................... ( ) ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning year........................ , , ------ ------- ------- Cash and equivalents, end year.............................. , , , Short-term investments......................................... , , , ------ ------- ------- Cash and short-term investments................................ $ , $ , $ , ====== ======= ======= See accompanying notes. BALANCE SHEETS ( MILLIONS) JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ ASSETS Current assets: Cash and short-term investments.......................................... $ , $ , Accounts receivable -- net allowances $ and $ ................. Inventories.............................................................. Other.................................................................... ------ ------ Total current assets............................................. , , Property, plant, and equipment -- net...................................... , Other assets............................................................... ------ ------ Total assets................................................ $ , $ , ====== ====== LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable......................................................... $ $ Accrued compensation..................................................... Income taxes payable..................................................... Other.................................................................... ------ ------ Total current liabilities........................................ , ------ ------ Minority interest.......................................................... -- ------ ------ Put warrants............................................................... -- ------ ------ Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Common stock and paid- capital -- shares authorized , ; issued and outstanding and .................................... , , Retained earnings........................................................ , , ------ ------ Total stockholders\' equity....................................... , , ------ ------ Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity.................. $ , $ , ====== ====== See accompanying notes. STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS) YEAR ENDED JUNE ---------------------------- ------ ------ ------ COMMON STOCK AND PAID- CAPITAL Balance, beginning year..................................... $ $ , $ , Common stock issued............................................ Common stock repurchased....................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sale put warrants............................. -- -- Reclassification put warrant obligation..................... -- -- ( ) Stock option income tax benefits............................... ------ ------ ------ Balance, end year................................... , , , ------ ------ ------ RETAINED EARNINGS Balance, beginning year..................................... , , , Common stock repurchased....................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Reclassification put warrant obligation..................... -- -- ( ) Net income..................................................... , , Translation adjustment......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Balance, end year................................... , , , ------ ------ ------ Total stockholders\' equity........................ $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== See accompanying notes. NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ( MILLIONS) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principles consolidation. The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Foreign currencies. Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies the books foreign subsidiaries are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited equity. Revenues, costs, and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Gains and losses foreign currency transactions are included other expenses. Revenue recognition. Revenue from sales distributors and resellers recognized when related products are shipped. Revenue from corporate license programs generally recognized when the product installed the user. Finished goods revenue attributable significant support (telephone support and specified and unspecified enhancements) recognized when such obligations are fulfilled. Costs related insignificant obligations, which includes telephone support for certain products, are accrued. Revenue from products licensed original equipment manufacturers recognized when the licensed products are shipped the OEM. Revenue from software maintenance, service, and support contracts recognized ratably over the contract period. Provisions are recorded for returns and bad debts. Research and development. Research and development costs are expensed incurred. The current accounting rule, Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed, does not materially affect the Company. Telephone support. Telephone support costs are included sales and marketing. Income taxes. Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus accrual for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect this difference reported deferred income taxes. Tax credits are accounted for reduction tax expense the year which the credits reduce taxes payable. Earnings per share. Earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number common shares outstanding plus the effect outstanding stock options, computed using the treasury stock method. Financial instruments. The Company considers all liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Short-term investments generally mature between three months and three years from the purchase date. All cash and short-term investments are classified available for sale. Cost approximates market value for all classifications cash and short-term investments; realized and unrealized gains and losses are not material. Statement Financial Accounting Standard Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities was adopted and did not have material impact the financial statements. Inventories. Inventories are stated the lower cost market. Cost determined using the first- , first-out method. Property, plant, and equipment. Property, plant, and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method. Estimated lives are follows: buildings, years; leasehold improvements, the lease term; computer equipment and other, principally three years. NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) Diversification risk. The Company\' investment portfolio diversified and consists short-term investment grade securities. June , and , approximately % accounts receivable represented amounts due from ten channel purchasers. Two these each accounted for approximately %, %, and % revenues , , and . Finished goods sales international customers Europe, Japan, Australia, and Canada are primarily billed local currencies. Payment cycles are relatively short, generally less than days. European manufacturing costs and international selling, distribution, and support costs are generally disbursed local currencies. Local currency cash balances excess short-term operating needs are generally converted into . dollar cash and short-term investments upon receipt. Therefore, foreign exchange rate fluctuations generally not create risk material transaction gains losses. result, Microsoft\' hedging activities for transaction exposures have been minimal. material hedge contracts were outstanding June , . Translated results operations the Company\' foreign subsidiaries are affected foreign exchange rates. During and for , the Company hedged percentage planned translated international finished goods revenues purchasing options the applicable currencies. Premiums paid for the options, which were not material, are being amortized over the lives the options. Any gains will recognized when and realized. Reclassifications. Certain reclassifications have been made for consistent presentation. CASH AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ Cash and equivalents: Cash..................................................... $ $ Commercial paper......................................... , Money market preferreds.................................. Certificates deposit.................................. Bank loan participations................................. ------ ------ Cash and equivalents..................................... , , ------ ------ Short-term investments: Municipal securities..................................... , , Corporate notes and bonds................................ . Treasury securities................................. Commercial paper......................................... ------ ------ Short-term investments................................... , , ------ ------ Cash and short-term investments.................. $ , $ , ====== ====== PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ Land....................................................... $ $ Buildings.................................................. Computer equipment......................................... Other...................................................... ------ ------ Property, plant, and equipment -- cost.................. , , Accumulated depreciation................................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ Property, plant, and equipment -- net...................... $ $ , ====== ====== NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes was composed : ------ ------ ------ Current taxes: . and state................................. $ $ $ International.................................. ---- ---- ---- Current taxes.................................. Deferred taxes................................... ( ) ---- ---- ---- Provision for income taxes....................... $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== Differences between the . statutory and effective tax rates were: ------ ------ ------ . statutory rate.............................. % % % Tax exempt income................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign sales corporation........................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax credits...................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) State taxes and other -- net..................... ---- ---- ---- Effective tax rate............................... % % % ==== ==== ==== Deferred income tax balances were: JUNE ----------------- ------ ------ Deferred income tax assets: Revenue items.................................. $ $ Expense items.................................. ----- ----- Deferred income tax assets..................... ----- ----- Deferred income tax liabilities: International earnings......................... ( ) ( ) Other.......................................... ( ) ( ) ----- ----- Deferred income tax liabilities................ ( ) ( ) ----- ----- Net deferred income tax asset............. $ $ ===== ===== . and international components income before income taxes were: ------ ------ ------ .............................................. $ $ , $ , International.................................... ------ ------ ------ Income before income taxes....................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== The Internal Revenue Service examining the Company\' . income tax returns for and . The Company believes any adjustments from the examination will not material the financial statements. Income taxes paid were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) COMMON STOCK Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ---- ---- ---- Balance, beginning year.............................. Issued.................................................. Repurchased............................................. ( ) ( ) ( ) --- --- --- Balance, end year.................................... === === === The Company repurchases its common stock the open market provide shares for issuance employees under stock option and stock purchase plans. The Company\' Board Directors authorized continuation this program . PUT WARRANTS connection with the Company\' stock repurchase program, put warrants were sold independent third parties during . The put warrants entitle the holders sell shares Microsoft common stock the Company specified prices. June , , million warrants were outstanding with strike price $ per share. The warrants expire various dates between February and November , are exercisable only maturity, and are settleable cash Microsoft\' option. The maximum potential repurchase obligation $ million has been reclassified from stockholders\' equity put warrants June , . There was impact earnings per share . EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Employee stock purchase plan. The Company has employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan, shares the Company\' common stock may purchased six-month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During , , and , employees purchased million, million, and million shares average prices $ , $ , and $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Savings plan. The Company has savings plan, which qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, participating . employees may defer % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. The Company contributes fifty cents for each dollar contributed participant, with maximum contribution % participant\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the savings plan were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Stock option plans. The Company has stock option plans for directors, officers, and all employees, which provide for nonqualified and incentive stock options. The Board Directors determines the option price (not less than fair market value for incentive options) the date grant. Options granted prior generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted during and after generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest over seven and one-half years and expire after ten years. June , , options for million shares were vested and million shares were available for future grants under the plans. NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) Stock options outstanding were follows: PRICE PER SHARE ------------------------- WEIGHTED NUMBER RANGE AVERAGE ------ ------------ -------- Balance, June , ..................... $ - $ Granted.................................... - Exercised.................................. ( ) - Canceled................................... ( ) - ----- Balance, June , ..................... - Granted.................................... - Exercised.................................. ( ) - Canceled................................... ( ) - ----- Balance, June , ..................... - Granted.................................... - Exercised.................................. ( ) - Canceled................................... ( ) - ----- Balance, June , ..................... - ===== LEASES The Company has operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, millions dollars, are: , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; , $ ; and thereafter, $ . THE MICROSOFT NETWORK During , wholly owned subsidiary Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) purchased % minority interest the newly formed Microsoft Online Services Partnership. TCI contributed $ million TCI common stock and Microsoft contributed the business assets its online service, The Microsoft Network, which was development. Microsoft owns % the entity, whose operations have not been material the financial results Microsoft. The entity was subsequently reorganized into The Microsoft Network, LLC. NONCONTINUING ITEMS the fourth quarter , the Company paid $ million breakup fee Intuit Inc. connection with the termination planned merger. the third quarter , the Company recorded $ million charge reflect the estimated impact jury verdict the Stac Electronics patent litigation and related expenses. June , the Company reached agreement with Stac settle the litigation and adjusted its estimate accordingly, resulting credit $ million the fourth quarter and net pretax charge $ million for . CONTINGENCIES July , , Microsoft and the . Department Justice (DOJ) entered into consent decree resolving the DOJ\' non-public investigation Microsoft. the consent decree, which involves admission wrongdoing Microsoft\' part, Microsoft agreed make certain changes its OEM licensing practices. Microsoft also agreed employ uniform duration its nondisclosure agreement for precommercial versions NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) ( MILLIONS) certain operating system products, and clarified the rights and responsibilities those signing such nondisclosure agreements. The consent decree was approved the . District Court for the District Columbia August , . The Antitrust Division the DOJ has stated that conducting investigation concerning Microsoft\' inclusion client-access software for The Microsoft Network Windows . Although there assurance that this matter will resolved favorably and that Microsoft\' future financial statements will not adversely affected, Microsoft currently believes that resolution this matter will not have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. INFORMATION GEOGRAPHIC AREA ------ ------ ------ Net revenues . operations................................ $ , $ , $ , European operations............................ , , , Other international operations................. Eliminations................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Total net revenues..................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Operating income . operations................................ $ $ , $ , European operations............................ Other international operations................. Eliminations................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Total operating income................. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Identifiable assets . operations................................ $ , $ , $ , European operations............................ , , , Other international operations................. Eliminations................................... ( ) ( ) ( , ) ------ ------ ------ Total identifiable assets.............. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Intercompany sales between geographic areas are accounted for prices representative unaffiliated party transactions. " . operations" include shipments customers the ., licensing OEMs, and exports finished goods directly international customers, primarily Canada, South America, and Asia. Exports and international OEM transactions are primarily . dollars and totaled $ million, $ million, and $ , million , , and . "Other international operations" primarily include subsidiaries Australia, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. International revenues, which include European operations, other international operations, exports, and OEM distribution, were %, %, and % total revenues , , and . INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\' REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , the related statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\' equity for each the three years ended June , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item . These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years ended June , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion the financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , (August , Contingencies Note) PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held October , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Information with respect Executive Officers may found pages and hereof, under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant." ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements Microsoft set forth under Item are filed part this report. Supplemental Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts filed page this report. Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. The independent auditors\' report with respect the above-listed financial statements and schedule appears page this report. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------ ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation( ) Bylaws( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisor( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington( ) Form Indemnification Agreement( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Two Years Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , - --------------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS ( MILLIONS) YEAR ENDED JUNE ---------------------- ---- ---- ---- Balance, beginning year............................................ $ $ $ Additions charged expense.......................................... Deductions............................................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- Balance, end year.................................................. $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / MICHAEL . BROWN ------------------------------------ Michael . Brown, Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / WILLIAM . GATES Chairman the Board Directors - --------------------------------------------- and Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / PAUL . ALLEN Director - --------------------------------------------- Paul . Allen / / RICHARD . HACKBORN Director - --------------------------------------------- Richard . Hackborn / / DAVID . MARQUARDT Director - --------------------------------------------- David . Marquardt / / ROBERT . \'BRIEN Director - --------------------------------------------- Robert . \'Brien Director - --------------------------------------------- . . Reed, . / / JON . SHIRLEY Director - --------------------------------------------- Jon . Shirley / / MICHAEL . BROWN Vice President, Finance; - --------------------------------------------- Chief Financial Officer Michael . Brown (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held October , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Information with respect Executive Officers may found pages and hereof, under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant." ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 14. ': "EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements Microsoft set forth under Item are filed part this report. Supplemental Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts filed page this report. Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. The independent auditors' report with respect the above-listed financial statements and schedule appears page this report. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------ ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation( ) Bylaws( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisor( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington( ) Form Indemnification Agreement( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Two Years Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , - --------------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . SCHEDULE -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS ( MILLIONS) YEAR ENDED JUNE ---------------------- ---- ---- ---- Balance, beginning year............................................ $ $ $ Additions charged expense.......................................... Deductions............................................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- Balance, end year.................................................. $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / MICHAEL . BROWN ------------------------------------ Michael . Brown, Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / WILLIAM . GATES Chairman the Board Directors - --------------------------------------------- and Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / PAUL . ALLEN Director - --------------------------------------------- Paul . Allen / / RICHARD . HACKBORN Director - --------------------------------------------- Richard . Hackborn / / DAVID . MARQUARDT Director - --------------------------------------------- David . Marquardt / / ROBERT . 'BRIEN Director - --------------------------------------------- Robert . 'Brien Director - --------------------------------------------- . . Reed, . / / JON . SHIRLEY Director - --------------------------------------------- Jon . Shirley / / MICHAEL . BROWN Vice President, Finance; - --------------------------------------------- Chief Financial Officer Michael . Brown (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) ", 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}