{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft was founded . Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential creating technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. develop and market software, services, and hardware devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value people\x92 lives. business worldwide and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services, designing and selling hardware devices, and delivering relevant online advertising global customer audience. addition selling individual products and services, offer suites products and services. Our products include operating systems for computing devices, servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; productivity applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. also design and sell hardware devices including Surface and Surface Pro, the Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , Xbox accessories, and Microsoft accessories. offer cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, and content over the Internet way shared computing resources located centralized data centers. Examples cloud-based computing services offer include Microsoft Office , Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Windows Azure, Bing, Skype, Xbox LIVE, and Yammer. Cloud revenue earned primarily from usage fees, advertising, and subscriptions. also provide consulting and product and solution support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software, hardware, and services. believe that will continue grow and meet our customers\x92 needs delivering family devices and services for individuals and businesses that empower people around the globe home, work, and the , for the activities they value most. will continue create new opportunities for partners, increase customer satisfaction, and improve our service excellence, business efficacy, and internal processes. OPERATING SEGMENTS During the periods presented, operated our business five segments: Windows Division, Server and Tools, Online Services Division, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. Our segments PART Item provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide framework for timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. Additional information our operating segments and geographic and product information contained Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). July , announced change organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. evolve how allocate resources and analyze performance the new structure, possible that our segments may change. Windows Division Windows Division develops and markets operating systems for computing devices, related software and online services, Surface and Pro devices, and accessories. This collection software, hardware, and services designed empower individuals, companies, and organizations and simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. Windows the first version the Windows operating system that supports both x86 and ARM chip architectures and that focuses touch. With this version, Windows able scale across more form factors, including mobile devices designed for consuming information and media, and devices that have high performance computing capabilities. Windows Division revenue growth impacted growth the computing device market worldwide. Currently, approximately % total Windows Division revenue comes from Windows operating systems purchased original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), which they pre-install the devices they sell. addition computing device market volume, Windows revenue impacted : \x95 the proliferation new computing devices that emphasize touch and mobility functionality; \x95 device market changes driven shifts between developed markets and emerging markets, and consumer devices and business devices; \x95 attachment Windows devices shipped; \x95 changes inventory levels within the OEM channel; \x95 pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders large, multinational OEMs, and different pricing Windows versions licensed; \x95 demand commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance; \x95 sales packaged software; and \x95 sales Surface and Pro devices. Principal Products and Services : Windows operating system; Windows Services suite applications and web services, including Outlook com and SkyDrive; Surface and Pro devices; and accessories. The general availability Surface and Windows started October , . The general availability Surface Pro started February , . preview Windows was released June , . Competition The Windows operating system faces competition from various commercial software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. believe Windows competes effectively giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity, and the largest support network for any operating system. The Windows operating system includes the Windows Store, online application marketplace. This marketplace benefits our developer and partner ecosystems providing access large customer base and benefits Windows users providing centralized access certified applications. PART Item Windows Services software and applications, including SkyDrive and Outlook com, compete with similar software and service products from Apple, Google, Yahoo!, and wide array websites and portals that provide communication and sharing tools and services. Surface Pro and devices and our accessories face competition from computer, tablet, and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners and customers. Server and Tools Server and Tools develops and markets server software, software developer tools, cloud-based services, and solutions that are designed make information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. offer our customers both -premise software and cloud-based offerings, bringing together the benefits traditional -site offerings with cloud-based services. Server software integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed support software applications built the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security and identity software. Server and Tools also builds standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server offerings can run -site, partner-hosted environment, Microsoft-hosted environment. Our cloud-based services comprise scalable operating system with computing, storage, database, and management, along with comprehensive cloud solutions, from which customers can build, deploy, and manage enterprise workloads and web applications. These services also include platform that helps developers build and connect applications and services the cloud premise. Our goal enable customers devote more resources development and use applications that benefit their businesses, rather than managing -premises hardware and software. Windows Embedded extends the power Windows and the cloud intelligent systems delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services. addition, Server and Tools offers broad range enterprise consulting and product support services (\x93Enterprise Services\x94) that assist customers developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions. Server and Tools also provides training and certification developers and information technology professionals for our Server and Tools, Microsoft Business Division, and Windows Division products and services. Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes from product revenue, including purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold OEMs, and retail packaged product, while the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. Principal Products and Services : Windows Server operating systems; Windows Azure; Microsoft SQL Server; Windows Intune; Windows Embedded; Visual Studio; System Center products; Microsoft Consulting Services; and Premier product support services. Competition Our server operating system products face competition from wide variety server operating systems and applications offered companies with range market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions the Unix operating system preinstalled server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute Linux operating system development. The competitive position Linux has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many commercial and non-commercial software developers. number companies, such Red Hat, supply versions Linux. compete provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both PART Item Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and -business servers. IBM and Oracle lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that compete with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our Web application platform software competes with open source software such Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. middleware, compete against Java middleware such Geronimo, JBoss, and Spring Framework. Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such BMC, Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby Rails, among others. Our embedded systems compete highly fragmented environment which key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. Our cloud-based services face diverse competition from companies such Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, Salesforce com, VMware, and other open source offerings. The Enterprise Services business competes with wide range companies, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused specific technologies. believe our server products, cloud-based services, and Enterprise Services provide customers with advantages performance, total costs ownership, and productivity delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Online Services Division Online Services Division (\x93OSD\x94) develops and markets information and content designed help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. OSD offerings include Bing, Bing Ads, and MSN. are also the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites worldwide. have completed the Yahoo! worldwide algorithmic transition and the paid search transition the . and several international markets, and are transitioning paid search the remaining international markets. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale search and display advertising, accounting for nearly all OSD\x92 revenue. have expanded Bing beyond standalone consumer search engine, and have integrated the technology into other Microsoft products, including Windows , the new Office, Xbox , and Windows Phone, enhance those offerings. plan continue incorporate Bing into our product and service portfolio. Principal Products and Services : Bing; Bing Ads; and MSN. Competition OSD competes with Google and wide array websites and portals that provide content and online offerings end users. Our success depends our ability attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings. believe can attract new users continuing offer new and compelling products and services and further differentiate our offerings providing broad selection content and helping users make faster, more informed decisions and take action more quickly providing relevant search results, expanded search services, and deeply-integrated social recommendations. Microsoft Business Division Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) offerings consist the Microsoft Office system (\x93Office,\x94 comprising mainly the core Office product set, Office , SharePoint, Exchange, and Lync) and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, which may delivered either premise cloud-based service. Office designed increase personal, PART Item team, and organization productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions and generates over % MBD revenue. Growth Office depends our ability add value the core Office product set and continue expand our product offerings other areas such content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management (\x93CRM\x94), supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. Approximately % MBD revenue generated from sales businesses, which includes Office revenue generated through subscriptions and volume licensing agreements well Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Revenue from sales businesses generally depends upon the number information workers licensed enterprise and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Approximately % MBD revenue derived from sales consumers, which includes revenue from retail packaged product, subscription sales, and OEM revenue. This revenue generally affected the level shipments, the shift subscription-based licensing, and product launches. Principal Products and Services : Microsoft Office; Microsoft Exchange; Microsoft SharePoint; Microsoft Lync; Yammer; Microsoft Office Project and Office Visio; Microsoft Dynamics ERP and Dynamics CRM; Microsoft Office , which online services offering Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and Microsoft Office Web Apps, which are the online companions Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. The general availability the new Office started January , . Competition Competitors Office include software application vendors such Adobe, Apple, Cisco, Google, IBM, Oracle, SAP, and numerous Web-based competitors well local application developers Asia and Europe. Apple distributes versions its application software products with various models its PCs and through its mobile devices and has measurable installed base for these pre-installed applications, such email, note taking, and calendar. Cisco using its position enterprise communications equipment grow its unified communications business. IBM has measurable installed base with its office productivity products. Google provides hosted messaging and productivity suite that competes with Office. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves alternatives Office products. believe our products compete effectively based our strategy providing powerful, flexible, secure, easy use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have and are available device via the cloud. Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such Oracle and SAP the market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises. the market focused providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such Infor, Sage, and NetSuite. Salesforce com\x92 -demand CRM offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online and Microsoft Dynamics CRM\x92 -premise offerings. Entertainment and Devices Division Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) develops and markets products and services designed entertain and connect people. The Xbox entertainment platform, including Kinect, designed provide unique variety entertainment choices through the use our devices, peripherals, content, and online services. Skype designed connect friends, family, clients, and colleagues through variety devices. Windows Phone designed bring users closer the people, applications, and content they need, while providing unique capabilities such Microsoft Office and Xbox LIVE. Through strategic alliance, Windows Phone and Nokia are jointly creating new mobile products and services and extending established product and services new markets. EDD revenue also includes revenue from licensing mobile-related patents. Principal Products and Services: Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , Xbox video games, Xbox accessories; Xbox LIVE; Skype; and Windows Phone. PART Item Competition Our Xbox gaming and entertainment business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five years. released Xbox November . Nintendo and Sony released competing versions their game consoles November . June , announced that expect our next generation console, Xbox One, available for purchase the second quarter fiscal year . Sony also announced their next generation console will available for purchase late . Nintendo released their latest generation console November . believe the success gaming and entertainment consoles determined the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the console, and the ability create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. addition Nintendo and Sony, our businesses compete with both Apple and Google offering content products and services the consumer. believe the Xbox entertainment platform positioned well against competitive products and services based significant innovation hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises well other digital content offerings. Windows Phone faces competition primarily from Apple, Google, and Blackberry. Skype competes primarily with Apple and Google, which offer selection instant messaging, voice, and video communication products. compete primarily the basis product quality and variety, unique capabilities our products, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. OPERATIONS have operations centers that support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. addition the operations centers, also operate data centers throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia regions. serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, localize many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. contract most our manufacturing activities for Xbox and related games, Kinect for Xbox , various retail software packaged products, Surface devices, and Microsoft accessories third parties. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Our Xbox console, Kinect for Xbox , Surface devices, and Microsoft accessories include key components that are supplied single source. The integrated central processing unit graphics processing unit for the Xbox console purchased from IBM, and the supporting embedded dynamic random access memory chips are purchased from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. generally have the ability use other manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable unable meet our requirements. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts represented % revenue each those years. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and development efforts. PART Item Product and Service Development and Intellectual Property develop most our products and services internally. Internal development allows maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. strive obtain information early possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, also create product documentation internally. protect our intellectual property investments variety ways. work actively the . and internationally ensure the enforcement copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. are leader among technology companies pursuing patents and currently have portfolio over , . and international patents issued and over , pending. While employ much our internally developed intellectual property exclusively Microsoft products and services, also engage outbound and inbound licensing specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees\x92 Microsoft\x92 products. From time time, enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups patents. also purchase license technology that incorporate into our products services. times, make select intellectual property broadly available low cost achieve strategic objective, such promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, attracting and enabling our external development community. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects our products and business methods, believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent any single license other agreement with third party relating the development our products. Investing the Future Microsoft\x92 success based our ability create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new geographic and product markets, and drive broad adoption our products and services. invest range emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that believe offer significant opportunities deliver value our customers and growth for the company. maintain our long-term commitment research and development across wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration, information access and organization, entertainment, business and -commerce, advertising, and devices. While our main research and development facilities are located Redmond, Washington, also operate research and development facilities other parts the . and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, and the United Kingdom. This global approach helps remain competitive local markets and enables continue attract top talent from across the world. generally fund research the corporate level ensure that are looking beyond immediate product considerations opportunities further the future. also fund research and development activities the business segment level. Much our business segment level research and development coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the company. addition our main research and development operations, also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research one the world\x92 largest computer science research organizations, and works close collaboration with top universities around the world advance the state- -the-art computer science, providing unique perspective future technology trends. Based our assessment key technology trends and our broad focus long-term research and development, see significant opportunities drive future growth smart connected devices, cloud computing, entertainment, search, communications, and productivity through our devices and services strategy. PART Item DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEMs; distributors and resellers; and online. OEMs distribute software through OEMs that pre-install our software new PCs, tablets, servers, smartphones, and other intelligent devices that they sell end customers. The largest component the OEM business the Windows operating system pre-installed computing devices. OEMs also sell hardware pre-installed with other Microsoft products, including server and embedded operating systems and applications such our Microsoft Office suite. addition these products, also market our services, such our Windows SkyDrive service, through OEMs. There are two broad categories OEMs. The largest OEMs, many which operate globally, are referred \x93Direct OEMs,\x94 our relationship with them managed through direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. have distribution agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu, HTC, Hewlett-Packard, , Lenovo, Nokia, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category OEMs consists lower-volume manufacturers (also called \x93system builders\x94), which source their Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through direct agreement relationship with Microsoft. Distributors and Resellers Many organizations that license our products and services through enterprise agreements transact directly with , with sales support from solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and developers that advise organizations licensing our products and services (\x93Enterprise Software Advisors\x94). Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through large account resellers (\x93LARs\x94), distributors, value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94), OEMs, system builder channels, and retailers. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily VARs, and VARs typically reach small-sized and medium-sized organizations. Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs, such the Select Plus and Open licensing programs discussed under \x93Licensing Options\x94 below. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets, such Wal-Mart, Dixons, and Microsoft Stores. distribute our hardware products, including Surface, Xbox, and accessories, through third-party retailers and Microsoft Stores. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support. Online Although client-based software will continue important part our business, increasingly are delivering additional value customers through cloud-based services. provide online content and services consumers through Bing, MSN portals and channels, Microsoft Office Web Apps, Office , Windows Phone Marketplace, Xbox LIVE, Outlook com, Skype, and Windows Store. also provide business users commercial cloud-based services such Exchange Online, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Windows Azure, Windows Intune, and Office consisting online versions Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and Yammer. Other services delivered PART Item online include our online advertising platform with offerings for advertisers and publishers, well Microsoft Developer Networks subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. increasingly deliver online services, sell many these cloud-based services through our enterprise agreements and have also enabled new sales programs reach small and medium-sized businesses. These new programs include direct sales, direct sales supported large network partner advisors, and resales services through operator channels, such telephone, cell, and cable providers. also sell our products through our online store, microsoftstore com. LICENSING OPTIONS license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products and services. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products and services are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include those discussed below. Open Licensing Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations, Open Programs allows customers acquire perpetual subscription licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (two three years depending the Open Programs used). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software products over the contract period called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Open Programs has several variations fit customers\x92 diverse way purchasing. Under the Open License Program, customers can acquire licenses only licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Select Plus Licensing Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations, the Select Plus Program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, software assurance over specified time period (generally three years less). Similar Open Programs, the Select Plus Program allows customers acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Online services are also available for purchase through the Select Plus Program, and subscriptions are generally structured with terms between one and three years. Partner Licensing The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement program targeted service providers and Independent Software Vendors allowing these partners provide software services and hosted applications their end customers. Agreements are generally structured with three-year term, and partners are billed monthly based upon consumption. Microsoft Online Services Reseller Agreement program enabling partners package Microsoft Online Services with the partners\x92 services. Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement designed enable small and medium-sized businesses easily purchase Microsoft Online Services. The program allows customers acquire monthly annual subscriptions for cloud-based services. Windows Azure Agreement designed enable small and medium-sized businesses purchase Windows Azure Subscription plans \x93pay- -you- \x94 basis. Enterprise Agreement Licensing Enterprise agreements are targeted medium- and large-sized organizations that want acquire licenses Online Services and software products, along with software assurance, for all substantial parts their enterprise. PART Item Enterprises can elect either acquire perpetual licenses , under the Enterprise Subscription Program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for specified time period (generally three years). Online Services are also available for purchase through the enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Anthony . Bates Executive Vice President, Business Development and Evangelism Lisa . Brummel Executive Vice President, Human Resources Amy . Hood Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Tami Reller Executive Vice President, Marketing Eric . Rudder Executive Vice President, Advanced Strategy and Research Bradford . Smith Executive Vice President, General Counsel; Secretary . Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer . Ballmer was appointed Chief Executive Officer January . served President from . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since . . Ballmer joined Microsoft . . Bates was named Executive Vice President, Business Development and Evangelism July . had been President Microsoft\x92 Skype Division since its acquisition Microsoft . . Bates had been Chief Executive Officer Skype since . Before joining Skype, . Bates spent nearly years Cisco Systems, Inc. where had been Senior Vice President and General Manager several business groups, including Enterprise, Commercial and Small Business, and Cisco\x92 core high-end router business. . Brummel, Executive Vice President, Human Resources, has served Microsoft\x92 senior human resources executive since . From , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home and Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions Microsoft, including General Manager Consumer Productivity Business, Product Unit Manager the Kids Business, and Product Unit Manager Desktop and Decision Reference Products. . Hood, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, was appointed Chief Financial Officer May . Beginning , . Hood was Chief Financial Officer the Microsoft Business Division. From through , . Hood was General Manager, Microsoft Business Division Strategy. Since joining Microsoft , . Hood has also held finance-related positions the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization. . Reller was named Executive Vice President, Marketing July . From . Reller was Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Financial Officer for Windows. . Reller served Corporate Vice President, Windows Division Marketing and Finance from and Corporate Vice President, Business Solutions beginning . . Reller joined Microsoft with its acquisition Great Plains Software, where she was Chief Financial Officer, . PART Item . Rudder was named Executive Vice President, Advanced Strategy and Research July . . Rudder had been Chief Technical Strategy Officer since . Since joining Microsoft , . Rudder held several positions networking and operating systems and developer tools, and was Senior Vice President, Server and Tools from and Senior Vice President, Developer and Platform Evangelism from . . Smith, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary, has served that role since November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. . Smith joined Microsoft . . Turner was named Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division. From , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. . Turner also serves the Board Directors Nordstrom, Inc. EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the . and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. our Investor Relations website, www microsoft com investor, make available free charge variety information for investors. Our goal maintain the Investor Relations website portal through which investors can easily find navigate pertinent information about , including: \x95 our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file that material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94); \x95 information our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators; \x95 announcements investor conferences, speeches, and events which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives these events are also available; \x95 press releases quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news; \x95 corporate governance information including our articles, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes conduct and ethics, global corporate citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies; \x95 other news and announcements that may post from time time that investors might find useful interesting; and \x95 opportunities sign for email alerts and RSS feeds have information pushed real time. The information found our website not part this any other report file with, furnish , the SEC. PART Item ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and the trading price our common stock. face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead lower revenue operating margins. Competition the technology sector Our competitors range size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them more effective deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers entry our businesses generally are low and software products can distributed broadly and quickly relatively low cost. Many the areas which compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions new products and services. Our ability remain competitive depends our success making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal businesses and consumers. Competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices important element our business model has been create platform-based ecosystems which many participants can build diverse solutions. well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale the marketplace necessary achieve and maintain attractive margins. The strategic importance developing and maintaining vibrant ecosystem increased with the launch the Windows operating system, Surface, Windows Phone, and associated cloud-based services. face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. \x95 competing vertically-integrated model, which single firm controls the software and hardware elements product and related services, has been successful with some consumer products such personal computers, tablets, mobile phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services that are integrated with the hardware and software platform. also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. Efforts compete with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost revenue and reduce our operating margins. \x95 derive substantial revenue from licenses Windows operating systems personal computers. face substantial competitive challenges from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete multiple bases including price and the perceived utility the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning these devices perform functions that would have been performed personal computers the past. Even many users view these devices complementary personal computer, the prevalence these devices may make more difficult attract applications developers our platforms. addition, Surface competes with products made our OEM partners, which may affect their commitment our platform. \x95 Competing platforms have applications marketplaces (sometimes referred \x93stores\x94) with scale and significant installed bases mobile devices. These applications leverage free and user-paid services that over time result disincentives for users switch competing platforms. order compete, must successfully enlist developers write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. Efforts compete with these application marketplaces may increase our cost revenue and lower our operating margins. PART Item Business model competition Companies compete with based growing variety business models. \x95 Under the license-based proprietary software model that generates most our revenue, bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many our competitors also develop and sell software businesses and consumers under this model and expect this competition continue. \x95 Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue funds development products and services these competitors provide users little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. \x95 Some companies compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software nominal cost end-users and earning revenue advertising complementary services and products. These firms not bear the full costs research and development for the software. Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality our products. The competitive pressures described above may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives. This may lead lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Our increasing focus services presents execution and competitive risks. growing part our strategy involves cloud-based services used with smart devices. Our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services the cloud and some cases the user\x92 choice which suite cloud-based services use. are devoting significant resources develop and deploy our own competing cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue evolve with this changing environment. While believe our expertise, investments infrastructure, and the breadth our cloud-based services provide with strong foundation compete, uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users generate the revenue required successful. addition software development costs, are incurring costs build and maintain infrastructure support cloud computing services. These costs may reduce the operating margins have previously achieved. Whether are successful this new business model depends our execution number areas, including: \x95 continuing bring market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; \x95 maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance our cloud-based services the growing array computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, and television-related devices; \x95 continuing enhance the attractiveness our cloud platforms third-party developers; and \x95 ensuring that our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations our customers and maintain the security their data. July , announced change organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. This change structure designed enable innovate with greater speed, efficiency, and capability the fast-changing competitive environment. expect this change alter the way plan, develop, and market our products and services, pursue single strategy offer family devices and services designed empower our customers for the activities they value most. uncertain whether our \x93One Microsoft\x94 strategy will yield the anticipated efficiencies competitive benefits. increasingly license cloud-based versions our products and services, such Office , rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized the time the transaction being recognized over the period the subscription. PART Item make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store, the Windows Azure Services platform, Office , other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox entertainment platform. will continue invest new software and hardware products, services, and technologies, such the Microsoft-designed and manufactured Surface launched October . Investments new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. customers not perceive our latest offerings providing significant new functionality other value, they may reduce their purchases new software products upgrades, unfavorably impacting revenue. may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not high the margins have experienced historically. October , launched Windows , major new release our operating system, which seeks deliver unique user experience through well-integrated software, hardware, and services. Its success depends number factors including the extent which customers embrace the new user interface and functionality, successfully coordinating with our OEM partners releasing variety hardware devices that take advantage new features, pricing Windows -based devices competitively, and attracting developers scale ensure competitive array quality applications. The marketing costs are incurring promote Windows and associated services and devices may reduce our operating margins. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that not realize satisfactory return our investment, that experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, that the transaction diverts management\x92 attention from our other businesses. Our acquisition Skype, for example, provides opportunities enhance our existing products. The success this acquisition will depend part our ability provide compelling experiences that distinguish from our competitors both consumer and business markets. may take longer than expected realize the full benefits from these transactions, such increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, increased market share, the benefits may ultimately smaller than anticipated may not realized. These events could harm our operating results financial condition. may not able adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use our software and other intellectual property difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. result, our revenue these markets may grow slower than the underlying market. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may fail enhance revenue. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time, receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow because constant technological change the segments which compete, the extensive patent coverage existing technologies, the rapid rate issuance new patents, and our offering Microsoft-branded services and hardware devices, such Surface. resolve these claims may enter into royalty and licensing agreements terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling redesign affected products services, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins decline. addition money damages, some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products services that have infringing technologies. some countries, such PART Item Germany, injunction can issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity the underlying patents. have made and expect continue making significant expenditures settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights and procure intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. may become easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code also could increase the security risks described the next paragraph. Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, harm our competitive position. Security Microsoft\x92 information technology Maintaining the security computers and computer networks paramount for and our customers. Threats information technology (\x93 \x94) security can take variety forms. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services and gain access our networks and data centers. Groups hackers may also act coordinated manner launch distributed denial service attacks, other coordinated attacks. Sophisticated organizations, individuals, governments launch targeted attacks gain access our network. Breaches our network data security could disrupt and compromise the security our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability provide services our customers and protect the privacy their data, result product development delays, compromise confidential technical business information harming our competitive position, result theft misuse our intellectual property, otherwise adversely affect our business. addition, our internal environment continues evolve. Often are early adopters new devices and technologies. embrace new ways sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. These practices can enhance efficiency and business insight, but they also present risks that our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed these changes. Security our customers\x92 products and services Security threats are particular challenge companies like whose business technology products and services. The threats our own infrastructure also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely the security our infrastructure ensure the reliability our services and the protection their data. Hackers tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many ours, and expect them continue . The security our products and services important consideration our customers\x92 purchasing decisions. devote significant resources defend against security threats, both our internal systems and those our customers. These include: \x95 engineering more secure products and services; \x95 enhancing security and reliability features our products and services, and continuously evaluating and updating those security and reliability features; \x95 improving the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities; \x95 investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed; PART Item \x95 protecting the digital security infrastructure that ensures the integrity our products and services; \x95 helping our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks; and \x95 providing customers online automated security tools, published security guidance, and security software such firewalls and anti-virus software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products and services could cause significant reputational harm and lead some customers reduce delay future purchases products subscriptions services, use competing products services. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption additional products services. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. Actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. Legislative regulatory action may increase the costs develop implement our products and services. Improper disclosure personal data could result liability and harm our reputation. continue grow the number and scale our cloud-based offerings, store and process increasingly large amounts personally identifiable information our customers. the same time, the continued occurrence high-profile data breaches provides evidence external environment increasingly hostile information security. This environment demands that continuously improve our design and coordination security controls across our business groups and geographies. Despite these efforts, possible our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure personally identifiable information that our vendors store and manage. Improper disclosure this information could harm our reputation, lead legal exposure customers, subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers store and process personal data premise , increasingly, cloud-based environment host. believe consumers using our email, messaging, storage, sharing, and social networking services will increasingly want efficient, centralized methods choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data. Perceptions that our products services not adequately protect the privacy personal information could inhibit sales our products services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption our cloud-based solutions. may experience outages, data losses, and disruptions our online services fail maintain adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic and the complexity our products and services demand more computing power. have spent and expect continue spend substantial amounts purchase lease data centers and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure handle more traffic our websites and our data centers, and introduce new products and services and support existing services such Bing, Exchange Online, Office , SharePoint Online, SkyDrive, Skype, Xbox LIVE, Windows Azure, Outlook com, and Microsoft Office Web Apps. also are growing our business providing platform and back-end hosting for services provided third-party businesses their end customers. Maintaining and expanding this infrastructure expensive and complex. Inefficiencies operational failures, including temporary permanent loss customer data, could diminish the quality our products, services, and user experience resulting contractual liability, claims customers and other third parties, damage our reputation and loss current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each which may harm our operating results and financial condition. are subject government litigation and regulatory activity that may limit how design and market our products. leading global software maker, are closely scrutinized government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights action for competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. For example, were sued competition law grounds the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia the late 1990s. The resolution the government lawsuits imposed various constraints our Windows operating system businesses. Although these constraints expired May , expect that federal and state antitrust authorities will continue closely scrutinize our business. PART Item The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design high-volume Microsoft products and the terms which make certain technologies used these products, such file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available other companies. , the Commission ordered create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies and provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. , the Commission accepted set commitments offered Microsoft address the Commission\x92 concerns relating competition Web browsing software, including undertaking address Commission concerns relating interoperability. These obligations may limit our ability innovate Windows other products the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability licenses related protocols and file formats may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality our products which could hamper sales our products. Government regulatory actions and court decisions such these may hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, thereby reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenue that come from them. New competition law actions could initiated any time. The outcome such actions, steps taken avoid them, could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products comply with government rulings, which may entail delay product release and removing functionality that customers want which developers rely. \x95 may required make available licenses our proprietary technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. \x95 The rulings described above may used precedent other competition law proceedings. \x95 are subject variety ongoing commitments result court administrative orders, consent decrees other voluntary actions have taken. fail comply with these commitments may incur litigation costs and subject substantial fines other remedial actions. For example, July , announced that, for some PCs sold Europe, were not compliance with our agreement display \x93Browser Choice Screen\x94 Windows PCs where Internet Explorer the default browser. result, the European Commission imposed fine \x80 million (approximately $ million). Our products and online services offerings, including new technologies develop acquire such Skype, are subject government regulation some jurisdictions, including areas user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear, subject change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Additionally these laws and governments\x92 approach their enforcement, well our products and services, are continuing evolve. Compliance with these types regulation may involve significant costs require changes products business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that stop the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenue. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus devices and cloud-based services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays new product service releases significant problems creating new products services could adversely affect our revenue. PART Item Adverse economic market conditions may harm our business. Unfavorable changes economic conditions, including inflation, recession, other changes economic conditions, may result lower spending and adversely affect our revenue. demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, consumer business spending for those products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Our product distribution system also relies extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been significant means distribution. The impact economic conditions our partners, such the bankruptcy major distributor, OEM, retailer, could result sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability our customers pay for products and services they have purchased. result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs accounts receivable may increase. maintain investment portfolio various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may exacerbated unusual events that affect global financial markets. significant part our investment portfolio consists . government securities. global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods decline, there downgrade . government debt, our investment portfolio may adversely impacted and could determine that more our investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all these claims may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. material adverse impact our financial statements also could occur for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes the . and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. regularly are under audit tax authorities. Economic and political pressures increase tax revenues various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our financial statements the period periods for which that determination made. earn significant amount our operating income from outside the ., and any repatriation funds currently held foreign jurisdictions the . may result higher effective tax rates for the company. addition, there have been proposals from Congress change . tax laws that would significantly impact how . multinational corporations are taxed foreign earnings. Although cannot predict whether what form any proposed legislation may pass, enacted could have material adverse impact our tax expense and cash flows. Our hardware and software products may experience quality supply problems. Our vertically-integrated hardware products such the Xbox console, Surface, and other hardware devices design and market are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture, associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm fail detect effectively address such issues through design, testing, warranty repairs. obtain some components our hardware devices from sole suppliers. Our competitors use some the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the amount capacity available . component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting reduced sales. Component shortages, excess obsolete inventory, price reductions resulting inventory adjustments may increase our cost revenue. Xbox consoles and Surface are assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products may offer. Our stand-alone software products also may experience quality reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software products develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Any defects not detect and fix pre-release testing could result reduced sales and revenue, damage our PART Item , reputation, repair remediation costs, delays the release new products versions, legal liability. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could result impairment goodwill intangibles. Under accounting principles generally accepted the United States, review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. test goodwill for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances, indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable, include decline stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively impacting our results operations. For example, the fourth quarter fiscal year , recorded $ billion charge for the impairment goodwill our Online Services Division business segment. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Competitive regulatory pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the . and other countries. Operations outside the . may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws (\x93Anti-Corruption Laws\x94) prohibit corrupt payments our employees, vendors, agents. While devote substantial resources our global compliance programs and have implemented certain policies, training, and internal controls designed reduce the risk corrupt payments, fail comply with Anti-Corruption Laws, may exposed significant fines and penalties. Emerging markets are significant focus our international growth strategy. The developing nature these markets presents number risks. Deterioration social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region, such current uncertainties relating European economic weakness, and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations, may also adversely affect our operations financial results. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. Catastrophic events geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations because major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services, performing other mission-critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business systems could harm our ability conduct normal business operations. Our move toward providing our customers with more services and solutions the cloud puts premium the resilience our systems and strength our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact prolonged service outages our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers, and may result supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either which may adversely affect our revenue. The long-term effects climate change the global economy general the industry particular are unclear. Environmental regulations changes the supply, demand available sources energy may affect the availability cost goods and services, including natural resources, necessary run our business. Changes weather where operate may increase the costs powering and cooling computer hardware use develop software and provide cloud-based services. ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. PART , Item , , , ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus Redmond, Washington and approximately five million square feet space lease. own approximately three million additional square feet office and data center space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately four million square feet office and data center space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately three million square feet that owned and approximately nine million square feet that leased. International facilities that own include: our development center Hyderabad, India; our European operations center Dublin, Ireland; research and development campus Beijing, China; and facilities Reading, . The largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan; Unterschleissheim, Germany; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; Bangalore, India; Reading, ; Vedbaek, Denmark; and Mississauga, Canada. addition the above locations, have disk duplication and digital distribution facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific operations center and regional headquarters, and various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described the \x93Research and Development\x94 section Item this Form - . Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available accommodate expansion needs. have development agreement with the City Redmond under which may currently develop approximately million square feet additional facilities our corporate campus Redmond, Washington. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS Our common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended September December March June Fiscal Year Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ PART Item , , DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding dividends and share repurchases quarter. Following are our monthly stock repurchases for the fourth quarter fiscal year , all which were made part publicly announced plans programs: Period Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares that May Yet Purchased under the Plans Programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , $ $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , The repurchases were made using cash resources and occurred either the open market through the exercise call options with certain counterparty. ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , $ , Diluted earnings per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes charge related fine imposed the European Commission March which decreased operating income and net income $ million ( \x80 million) and diluted earnings per share $ . Also includes charge for Surface inventory adjustments recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , which decreased operating income $ million, net income $ million, and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes goodwill impairment charge related our Online Services Division business segment which decreased operating income and net income $ billion and diluted earnings per share $ . ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying Notes Financial Statements. OVERVIEW Microsoft technology leader focused helping people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. create technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate across wide range computing devices. PART Item generate revenue developing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products, offering array services, including cloud-based services consumers and businesses, designing and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and delivering relevant online advertising global audience. Our most significant expenses are related compensating employees, designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services, and income taxes. Industry Trends Our industry dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes both technologies and business models. Each industry shift opportunity conceive new products, new technologies, new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. Microsoft, push the boundaries what possible through broad range research and development activities that seek identify and address the changing demands customers, industry trends, and competitive forces. Key Opportunities and Investments Based our assessment key technology trends and our broad focus long-term research and development new products and services, see significant opportunities generate future growth. invest research and development resources new products and services these areas. The capabilities and accessibility PCs, tablets, phones, televisions, and other devices powered rich software platforms and applications continue grow. With this trend, believe the full potential software will seen and felt how people use these devices and the associated services work and their personal lives. Devices with end-user services work with ecosystem partners deliver broad spectrum Windows devices. some cases, build our own devices, have chosen with Xbox and Surface. all our work with partners and our own devices, focus delivering seamless services and experiences across devices. consumer services and hardware advance, expect they will continue better complement one another, connecting the devices people use daily unique communications, productivity, and entertainment services from Microsoft and our partners and developers around the world. Windows reflects this shift. Launched October , Windows was designed unite the light, thin, and convenient aspects tablet with the power . The Windows operating system includes the Windows Store, which offers large and growing number applications from Microsoft and partners for both business and consumer customers. Going forward, our strategy will focus creating family devices and services for individuals and businesses that empower people around the globe home, work, and the , for the activities they value most. This strategy will require investment datacenters and other infrastructure support our services, and will bring continued competition with Apple, Google, and other well-established and emerging competitors. believe our history powering devices such Windows PCs and Xbox, well our experience delivering high-value experiences through Office and other applications, will position for future success. Services for the enterprise Today, businesses face important opportunities and challenges. Enterprises are asked deploy technology that drives business strategy forward. They decide what solutions will make employees more productive, collaborative, and satisfied, connect with customers new and compelling ways. They work unlock business insights from world data. the same time, they must manage and secure corporate information that employees access across growing number personal and corporate devices. PART Item address these opportunities, businesses look our world-class business applications like Microsoft Dynamics, Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, Yammer, and our business intelligence solutions. They rely our technology manage employee corporate identity and protect their corporate data. And, increasingly, businesses all sizes are looking Microsoft realize the benefits the cloud. Helping businesses move the cloud one our largest opportunities. Cloud-based solutions provide customers with software, services, and content over the Internet way shared computing resources located centralized data centers. The shift the cloud driven three important economies scale: larger data centers can deploy computational resources significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; larger data centers can coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns improving the utilization computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy lowers application maintenance labor costs for large public clouds. Because the improved economics, the cloud offers unique levels elasticity and agility that enable new solutions and applications. For businesses all sizes, the cloud creates the opportunity focus innovation while leaving non-differentiating activities reliable and cost-effective providers. Unique Microsoft, continue design and deliver cloud solutions that allow our customers use both the cloud and their -premise assets however best suits their own needs. For example, company can choose deploy Office Microsoft Dynamics premise, cloud service, combination both. With Windows Server , Windows Azure, and System Center infrastructure, businesses can deploy applications their own datacenter, partner\x92 datacenter, Microsoft\x92 datacenter with common security, management, and administration across all environments, with the flexibility and scale they desire. These hybrid capabilities allow customers fully harness the power the cloud they can achieve greater levels efficiency and tap new areas growth. Our future opportunity There are several distinct areas technology that are focused driving forward. Our goal lead the industry these areas over the long-term, which expect will translate sustained growth well into the future. are investing significant resources : \x95 Developing new form factors that have increasingly natural ways use them, including touch, gesture, and speech. \x95 Applying machine learning make technology more intuitive and able act our behalf, instead our command. \x95 Building and running cloud-based services ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals. \x95 Establishing our Windows platform across the , tablet, phone, server, and cloud drive thriving ecosystem developers, unify the cross-device user experience, and increase agility when bringing new advances market. \x95 Delivering new high-value experiences with improvements how people learn, work, play, and interact with one another. believe the breadth our devices and services portfolio, our large, global partner and customer base, and the growing Windows ecosystem position leader these areas. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The market for software, devices, and cloud-based services dynamic and highly competitive. Some our traditional businesses such the Windows operating system are period transition. Our competitors are developing new devices and deploy competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services the cloud and some cases the user\x92 choice which suite cloud-based services use. The Windows ecosystem must continue evolve and adapt, over extended time, pace with this changing environment. support our strategy offering PART Item family devices and services designed empower our customers for the activities they value most, announced functional realignment July . Through this realignment our goal become more nimble, collaborative, communicative, motivated, and decisive. Even achieve these benefits, the investments are making devices and infrastructure support our cloud-based services will increase our operating costs and may decrease our operation margins. prioritize our investments among the highest long-term growth opportunities. These investments require significant resources and are multi-year nature. The products and services bring market may developed internally, part partnership alliance, through acquisition. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. hire mix university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals worldwide offering broad customer reach, scale resources, and competitive compensation. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and hardware correlated global macroeconomic factors, which remain dynamic. See discussion these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part , Item this Form - ). Seasonality Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division particularly seasonal its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately % its yearly revenue our second fiscal quarter. Unearned Revenue Quarterly and annual revenue may impacted the deferral revenue. See the discussions below regarding revenue deferred sales Windows with option upgrade Windows Pro discounted price (the \x93Windows Upgrade Offer\x94) and sales the previous version the Microsoft Office system with guarantee upgraded the new Office minimal cost (the \x93Office Upgrade Offer\x94, for the offer relating the new Office, and \x93the Office Upgrade Offer\x94 for the prior offer relating Office ). our customers elect license cloud-based versions our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized the time the transaction being recognized over the subscription period upon consumption, applicable. RESULTS OPERATIONS Summary ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ % ( )% Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue increased, primarily due higher revenue from Server and Tools well revenue from new products and services, including Windows , Surface, and the new Office, offset part the impact revenue decline the x86 market. PART Item Operating income grew, primarily due the $ billion goodwill impairment charge related our OSD business recorded during the prior year. Other key changes cost revenue and operating expenses were: \x95 Cost revenue increased $ billion %, reflecting increased product costs associated with Surface and Windows , including approximately $ million charge for Surface inventory adjustments, higher headcount-related expenses, payments made Nokia related joint strategic initiatives, royalties Xbox LIVE content, and retail stores expenses, offset part decreased costs associated with lower sales Xbox consoles and decreased traffic acquisition costs. \x95 Sales and marketing expenses increased $ billion %, reflecting advertising Windows and Surface. \x95 Research and development expenses increased $ million %, due mainly higher headcount-related expenses, largely related the Entertainment and Devices Division. \x95 General and administrative expenses increased $ million %, due higher legal charges, primarily the fine $ million. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue increased primarily due strong sales Server and Tools products and services and the Microsoft Office system, offset part the decline Windows operating system revenue primarily due the deferral $ million revenue relating the Windows Upgrade Offer. Revenue fiscal year also included Skype revenue from the date acquisition. Operating income decreased reflecting goodwill impairment charge $ billion related our OSD business segment. Other key changes cost revenue and operating expenses were: \x95 Cost revenue increased $ billion %, reflecting higher costs associated with providing Server and Tools products and services, payments made Nokia related joint strategic initiatives, higher Xbox royalty costs, and other changes the mix products and services sold. \x95 Research and development expenses increased $ million %, due mainly higher headcount-related expenses. \x95 General and administrative expenses increased $ million %, due mainly higher headcount-related expenses and the full year impact new Puerto Rican excise taxes, offset part decreased legal charges. Headcount-related expenses were higher across the company reflecting % increase headcount from June , and changes our employee compensation program. Fiscal year diluted earnings per share were negatively impacted the non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge, which decreased diluted earnings per share $ . Fiscal year net income and diluted earnings per share reflected partial settlement with the . Internal Revenue Service (\x93 .\x94) and higher other income. The partial settlement with the . added $ million net income and $ diluted earnings per share fiscal year . SEGMENT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The revenue and operating income (loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted the . (\x93 . GAAP\x94) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the segments. Segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) presented basis consistent with our internal management reporting. Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from segment operating results and analyzed separately. have recast certain prior period amounts within this & conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during fiscal year , reflecting immaterial movements PART Item business activities between segments and changes cost allocations. July , announced change organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. evolve how allocate resources and analyze performance the new structure, possible that our segments may change. Windows Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Operating income $ , $ , $ , ( )% ( )% Windows Division develops and markets operating systems for computing devices, related software and online services, Surface and Pro devices, and accessories. This collection software, hardware, and services designed empower individuals, companies, and organizations and simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. The general availability Surface and Windows started October , . The general availability Surface Pro started February , . Currently, approximately % total Windows Division revenue comes from Windows operating systems purchased original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94) and pre-installed devices they sell. The remaining Windows Division revenue generated commercial and retail sales Windows, Surface, accessories, and online advertising. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Windows Division revenue increased $ million. Surface revenue was $ million. Revenue from commercial licensing Windows increased $ million, while unearned revenue from commercial licensing also increased, reflecting continued support our platform. addition, recognized $ million previously deferred revenue related the expiration the Windows Upgrade Offer. Partially offsetting these increases was decrease OEM revenue. OEM revenue decreased %. Excluding the impact the Windows Upgrade Offer, OEM revenue decreased %. This decrease primarily reflects the impact revenue the decline the x86 market, which estimate declined approximately %. May , announced that had surpassed million licenses sold for Windows . Windows Division operating income decreased, primarily due higher cost revenue and sales and marketing expenses, offset part revenue growth. Cost revenue increased $ billion, reflecting $ billion increase product costs associated with Surface and Windows , including charge for Surface inventory adjustments approximately $ million. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ billion %, reflecting $ million increase advertising costs associated primarily with Windows and Surface. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Windows Division revenue reflected relative performance the market segments. estimate that sales PCs businesses grew approximately % and sales PCs consumers decreased %. Excluding decline sales netbooks, estimate that sales PCs consumers grew approximately %. Taken together, the total market increased estimated % %. Relative market growth, Windows Division revenue was negatively impacted higher growth emerging markets, where average selling prices are lower than developed markets, and the deferral $ million revenue relating the Windows Upgrade Offer. Windows Division operating income decreased, due mainly lower revenue and $ million % increase research and development expenses, primarily associated with the Windows operating system. PART Item Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Server and Tools develops and markets technology and related services that enable information technology professionals and their systems more productive and efficient. Server and Tools product and service offerings include Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Azure, Visual Studio, System Center products, Windows Embedded device platforms, and Enterprise Services. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. also offer developer tools, training, and certification. Approximately % Server and Tools revenue comes from product revenue, including purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold OEMs, and retail packaged product, while the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased both product sales and Enterprise Services. Product revenue increased $ billion %, driven primarily growth Microsoft SQL Server, System Center, and Windows Server. Enterprise Services revenue grew $ million %, due growth both Premier product support and consulting services. Server and Tools operating income increased, primarily due revenue growth, offset part higher cost revenue and sales and marketing expenses. Cost revenue grew $ million %, reflecting $ million increase headcount-related expenses and $ million increase datacenter expenses. Headcount-related expenses increased due mainly higher Enterprise Services headcount supporting revenue growth, while datacenter expenses grew primarily support our online services offerings. Sales and marketing expenses grew $ million %, reflecting increased fees paid third-party enterprise software advisors and corporate sales and marketing activities. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Server and Tools revenue increased both product sales and Enterprise Services. Product revenue increased $ billion %, driven primarily growth SQL Server, Windows Server, and System Center, reflecting continued adoption the Windows platform. Enterprise Services revenue grew $ million %, due growth both Premier product support and consulting services. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due revenue growth, offset part higher costs providing products and services and increased sales and marketing expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily reflecting higher Enterprise Services headcount-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses grew $ million %, reflecting increased corporate marketing activities. Online Services Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) * * * Not meaningful Online Services Division (\x93OSD\x94) develops and markets information and content designed help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. OSD offerings include Bing, Bing Ads, and MSN. Bing and MSN generate revenue through the sale search and display advertising, accounting for nearly all OSD\x92 revenue. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Online advertising revenue grew $ million % $ billion, reflecting increase search advertising revenue, offset part decrease display advertising revenue. Search revenue grew primarily due increased revenue per search, resulting from ongoing improvements products, while display advertising revenue decreased primarily due industry-wide market pressure. OSD\x92 operating loss decreased, primarily due the prior year goodwill impairment charge $ billion. Operating loss was further reduced higher revenue and lower cost revenue and operating expenses. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, driven $ million decrease traffic acquisition costs well lower Yahoo! reimbursement costs. Sales and marketing expenses were $ million % lower, due mainly decreased corporate sales and marketing activities. Research and development costs increased $ million %, due primarily higher headcount-related expenses resulting mainly from increased headcount. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Online advertising revenue grew $ million % $ billion, reflecting continued growth search advertising revenue, offset part decreased display advertising revenue. Search revenue grew due increased revenue per search, increased volumes reflecting general market growth, and share gains the . According third-party sources, Bing organic . market share for the month June was approximately %, and grew basis points year over year. Bing-powered . market share, including Yahoo! properties, was approximately % for the month June , down basis points year over year. OSD\x92 fiscal year operating loss reflects goodwill impairment charge $ billion, which recorded result our annual goodwill impairment test the fourth quarter. The non-cash, non-tax-deductible charge related mainly goodwill acquired through our acquisition aQuantive, Inc. Excluding the $ billion goodwill impairment charge, OSD\x92 operating loss was reduced higher revenue and lower sales and marketing expenses and cost revenue. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, due mainly lower marketing spend. Cost revenue decreased $ million, driven lower Yahoo! reimbursement costs, amortization, and online operating costs. Microsoft Business Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Microsoft Business Division (\x93MBD\x94) develops and markets software and online services designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. MBD offerings include the Microsoft Office system (\x93Office,\x94 comprising mainly the core Office product set, Office , SharePoint, Exchange, and Lync), which generates over % MBD revenue, and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. The general availability the new Office started January , . evaluate MBD results based upon the nature the end user two primary parts: business revenue and consumer revenue. Business revenue includes Office revenue generated through subscription and volume licensing agreements with software assurance, license-only agreements for Office, and Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Consumer revenue includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue increased reflecting growth business revenue, partially offset decline consumer revenue. Business revenue increased $ billion %, which reflects % growth Office revenue from subscriptions and PART Item volume licensing agreements with software assurance, and % increase Microsoft Dynamics revenue, offset part % decrease Office license-only revenue. Consumer revenue decreased $ million %, primarily driven the impact revenue decline the x86 market. MBD revenue for the year ended June , included unfavorable foreign currency impact $ million. MBD operating income increased, primarily due revenue growth, offset part higher sales and marketing expenses and cost revenue. Sales and marketing expenses grew $ million %, primarily due higher advertising expenses, fees paid third-party software advisors, and increased cross-platform marketing activities. Cost revenue grew $ million %, primarily due increase online operation and support costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year MBD revenue increased primarily reflecting sales Office. Business revenue increased $ billion %, primarily reflecting growth multi-year volume licensing revenue, licensing Office transactional business customers, and % increase Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Consumer revenue decreased $ million % due the recognition $ million revenue the prior year associated with the Office Upgrade Offer. Excluding the fiscal year impact associated with the Office Upgrade Offer, consumer revenue increased $ million, driven increased sales Office. MBD revenue for the year ended June , included favorable foreign currency impact $ million. MBD operating income increased, primarily due revenue growth, offset part higher cost revenue and research and development expenses. Cost revenue increased $ million %, primarily due higher online operation and support costs. Research and development expenses increased, due mainly increase headcount-related expenses. Entertainment and Devices Division ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ $ $ , % ( )% Entertainment and Devices Division (\x93EDD\x94) develops and markets products and services designed entertain and connect people. EDD offerings include the Xbox entertainment platform (which includes the Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , Xbox video games, Xbox LIVE, and Xbox accessories), Skype, and Windows Phone, including related patent licensing revenue. acquired Skype October , , and its results operations from that date are reflected our results discussed below. June , announced that expect our next generation console, Xbox One, available for purchase the second quarter fiscal year . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue increased, due higher Windows Phone and Skype revenue, offset part lower Xbox platform revenue. Windows Phone revenue increased $ billion, including increase patent licensing revenue and sales Windows Phone licenses. Skype revenue increased, due primarily including full year results fiscal year . Xbox platform revenue decreased $ million %, due mainly lower volumes consoles sold, offset part higher Xbox LIVE revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . EDD operating income increased, primarily due revenue growth and lower cost revenue, offset part higher operating expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $ million %, reflecting $ million PART Item decrease Xbox platform marketing. Cost revenue decreased $ million %, due mainly $ billion decrease manufacturing and distribution costs associated with lower volumes Xbox consoles sold, offset part $ million increase expenses for payments made Nokia related joint strategic initiatives and $ million increase royalties Xbox LIVE content. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, reflecting $ million higher headcount-related expenses, resulting mainly from increased headcount connection with the Xbox platform and Skype. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year EDD revenue increased primarily reflecting Skype and Windows Phone revenue, offset part lower Xbox platform revenue. Xbox platform revenue decreased $ million, due mainly decreased volumes Kinect for Xbox sold and lower video game revenue, offset part higher Xbox LIVE revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . Video game revenue decreased due strong sales Halo Reach the prior year. EDD operating income decreased reflecting higher cost revenue and operating expenses, offset part revenue growth. Cost revenue grew $ million %, primarily due changes the mix products and services sold and payments made Nokia related joint strategic initiatives. Research and development expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting higher headcount-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily reflecting the inclusion Skype expenses. Corporate-Level Activity ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Corporate-level activity $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% ( )% Certain corporate-level activity not allocated our segments, including costs : broad-based sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; costs operating our retail stores; and legal settlements and contingencies. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses increased, primarily due higher legal charges from the European Commission fine \x80 million (approximately $ million) for failure comply with our agreement display \x93Browser Choice Screen\x94 Windows PCs where Internet Explorer the default browser (the \x93 fine\x94). Corporate-level expenses also grew due $ million increase retail stores expenses and $ million higher intellectual property licensing costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate-level expenses increased due mainly full year Puerto Rican excise taxes, higher headcount-related expenses, and changes foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were offset part lower legal charges, which were $ million fiscal year compared with $ million fiscal year . COST REVENUE Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 2ppt 2ppt PART Item Cost revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold, including Xbox and Surface, and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold OEMs, drive traffic our websites, and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94); costs incurred support and maintain internet-based products and services, including datacenter costs and royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized research and development costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased, reflecting $ billion product costs associated with Surface and Windows , including charge for Surface inventory adjustments approximately $ million, $ million higher headcount-related expenses, $ million increase expenses for payments Nokia related joint strategic initiatives, $ million higher intellectual property licensing costs, $ million increase royalties Xbox LIVE content, and $ million increase retail store expenses, offset part $ billion decrease manufacturing and distribution costs associated with lower volumes Xbox consoles sold and $ million decrease traffic acquisition costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cost revenue increased reflecting higher headcount-related expenses, payments made Nokia, and changes the mix products and services sold. Headcount-related expenses increased %, primarily related increased Enterprise Services headcount. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 0ppt 0ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased, reflecting $ million % increase headcount-related expenses, largely related the Entertainment and Devices Division. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased, primarily reflecting % increase headcount-related expenses. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % ( )% percent revenue % % % 1ppt ( )ppt PART Item Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses grew, reflecting $ million increase advertising costs associated primarily with Windows and Surface, $ million higher fees paid third-party software advisors, and $ million % increase headcount-related expenses. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses decreased slightly, primarily reflecting decreased advertising and marketing the Xbox platform, Windows Phone, and Bing, offset part % increase headcount-related expenses. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 1ppt 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses increased due higher legal charges from the fine. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses increased, primarily due % increase headcount-related expenses and full year Puerto Rican excise taxes, offset part decrease legal charges. Goodwill Impairment test goodwill for impairment annually May the reporting unit level using fair value approach. impairment goodwill was identified May , . Our goodwill impairment test May , , indicated that OSD\x92 carrying value exceeded its estimated fair value. Accordingly, recorded non-cash, non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge $ billion during the three months ended June , , reducing OSD\x92 goodwill from $ billion $ million. PART Item OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) AND INCOME TAXES Other Income (Expense) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains investments Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Total $ $ $ use derivative instruments : manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are primarily recognized other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded component other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94) until the securities are sold other-than-temporarily impaired, which time the amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) into other income (expense). Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income decreased due lower yields our fixed-income investments, offset part higher average portfolio investment balances. Net recognized gains investments decreased primarily due lower gains sales equity and fixed-income securities and gain recognized the partial sale our Facebook holding the prior year, offset part lower other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $ million fiscal year , compared with $ million fiscal year . Net losses derivatives decreased due gains equity derivatives the current fiscal year compared with losses the prior fiscal year, and lower losses commodity and foreign exchange derivatives compared the prior fiscal year, offset part losses interest-rate derivatives the current fiscal year compared gains the prior fiscal year. For the current year, other reflects recognized gains divestitures, including the gain recognized upon the divestiture our % share the MSNBC joint venture. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income decreased due lower yields our fixed-income investments, offset part higher average portfolio investment balances. Interest expense increased due our increased issuance debt the prior year. Net recognized gains investments increased, primarily due higher gains sales equity and fixed-income securities and gain recognized the partial sale our Facebook holding upon the initial public offering May , , offset part higher other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $ million fiscal year , compared with $ million fiscal year . Net losses derivatives increased due losses commodity and equity derivatives the current fiscal year compared with gains the prior fiscal year, offset part fewer losses foreign exchange contracts the current fiscal year compared the prior fiscal year. Changes foreign currency remeasurements were primarily due currency movements net our hedging activities. PART Item Income Taxes Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rate for fiscal years and was approximately % and %, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Our fiscal year effective rate decreased % from fiscal year mainly due nonrecurring $ billion non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge that was recorded fiscal year . The goodwill impairment charge increased our effective tax rate % fiscal year . addition, fiscal years and , recognized reduction % and %, respectively, the effective tax rate due foreign earnings taxed lower rates. The decrease our effective tax rate for fiscal year was primarily offset % increase related the fine, which not tax deductible. Changes the mix income before income taxes between the . and foreign countries also impacted our effective tax rates and resulted primarily from changes the geographic distribution and changes consumer demand for our products and services. discussed above, Windows Division operating income declined $ billion fiscal year , while MBD and Server and Tools operating income increased $ million and $ million, respectively, during this same period. supply Windows, our primary Windows Division product, customers through our . regional operating center, while supply the Microsoft Office System, our primary MBD product, and our Server and Tools products customers through our foreign regional operations centers. fiscal years and , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. fiscal years and , the foreign income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. The primary driver for the increase the . income before income tax fiscal year was the goodwill impairment charge recorded during the prior year. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively, and are included other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily transfer pricing, including transfer pricing developments certain foreign tax jurisdictions, primarily Denmark. While settled portion the . audit for tax years during the third quarter fiscal year , remain under audit for those years. February , the . withdrew its Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase the examination. June , , the primary unresolved issue relates transfer pricing which could have significant impact our financial statements not resolved favorably. not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months because not believe the remaining open issues will resolved within the next months. also continue subject examination the . for tax years . are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the . Our operations certain jurisdictions remain subject examination for tax years , some which are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolutions these audits are not expected material our financial statements. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rates for fiscal years and were approximately % and %, respectively. Our effective tax rates were lower than the . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Our fiscal year effective rate increased % from fiscal year mainly due nonrecurring $ billion non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge that was recorded the fourth quarter . The goodwill impairment charge increased our effective tax rate %. addition, fiscal years and , recognized PART Item reduction % and %, respectively, the effective tax rate due foreign earnings taxed lower rates. fiscal year , settled portion . audit tax years , which reduced our income tax expense for fiscal year $ million and reduced the effective tax rate %. Changes the mix income before income taxes between the . and foreign countries also impacted our effective tax rates and resulted primarily from changes the geographic distribution and changes consumer demand for our products and services. discussed above, Windows Division operating income declined $ million fiscal year , while MBD and Server and Tools operating income increased $ billion and $ billion, respectively, during this same period. supply Windows, our primary Windows Division product, customers through our . regional operating center, while supply the Microsoft Office System, our primary MBD product, and our Server and Tools products customers through our foreign regional operations centers. fiscal years and , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. fiscal years and , the foreign income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. The primary driver for the decrease the . income before income tax fiscal year was the goodwill impairment charge. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Our short-term investments are primarily facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly . dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities order diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity our fixed-income portfolio are managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related these investments insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. While own certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio June , does not contain material direct exposure subprime mortgages structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority our mortgage-backed securities are collateralized prime residential mortgages and carry % principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. routinely monitor our financial exposure both sovereign and non-sovereign borrowers and counterparties. Our gross exposures our customers and investments Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain are individually and collectively not material. the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments June , , approximately $ billion was held our foreign subsidiaries and would subject material repatriation tax effects. The amount cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries subject other restrictions the free flow funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was approximately $ million. June , , approximately % the cash equivalents and short-term investments held our foreign subsidiaries were invested . government and agency securities, approximately % were invested corporate notes and bonds . companies, and % were invested . mortgage-backed securities, all which are denominated . dollars. Securities lending lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness PART Item the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $ million June , . Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the fiscal year were $ million and $ billion, respectively. Intra-year variances the amount securities loaned are mainly due fluctuations the demand for the securities. Valuation general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities determine the fair value our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and . government securities. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available determine fair value, then use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments such corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and . agency securities. Level investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are immaterial portion our portfolio. majority our investments are priced pricing vendors and are generally Level Level investments these vendors either provide quoted market price active market use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing used mainly when quoted price not available, the investment not priced our pricing vendors, when broker price more reflective fair values the market which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified Level investments because the broker prices these investments based similar assets without applying significant adjustments. addition, all our broker-priced investments have sufficient level trading volume demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review key model inputs, analysis period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flows from operations decreased $ billion during the current fiscal year $ billion, due mainly changes working capital, including increases inventory and other current assets. Cash used for financing decreased $ billion $ billion, due mainly $ billion increase proceeds from issuances debt, net repayments, offset part $ billion increase dividends paid and $ million decrease proceeds from the issuance common stock. Cash used investing decreased $ million $ billion, due mainly $ billion decrease cash used for acquisitions companies and purchases intangible and other assets, offset part $ billion increase cash used for net investment purchases, maturities, and sales and $ billion increase cash used for additions property and equipment. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flows from operations increased $ billion during fiscal year $ billion, due mainly increased revenue and cash collections from customers. Cash used for financing increased $ billion $ billion, due mainly $ billion net decrease proceeds from issuances debt and $ billion increase dividends paid, offset part $ billion decrease cash used for common stock repurchases. Cash used investing increased $ billion $ billion, due mainly $ billion increase acquisitions businesses and purchases intangible assets and $ billion decrease cash from securities lending activities, partially offset $ billion decrease cash used for net purchases, maturities, and sales investments. PART Item Debt issued debt take advantage favorable pricing and liquidity the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds these issuances were will used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment existing debt. June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. This compared carrying value and estimated fair value $ billion and $ billion, respectively, June , . These estimated fair values are based Level inputs. The components our long-term debt, including the current portion, and the associated interest rates were follows June , : Due Date Face Value Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate ( millions) Notes September , $ , % % June , , % % September , , % % February , % % November , ( ) % % May , ( ) % % June , , % % October , , % % February , % % November , ( ) % % May , ( ) , % % May , ( ) % % June , % % October , , % % February , , % % November , ( ) % % May , ( ) % % Total $ , ( ) November , issued $ billion debt securities. ( ) April , issued $ billion debt securities. ( ) April , issued \x80 million debt securities. Interest the notes paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities which interest paid annually. June , , the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $ million. Notes The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. PART Item Convertible Debt June , paid cash $ billion for the principal amount our zero coupon convertible unsecured debt and elected deliver cash for the $ million excess obligation resulting from the conversion the notes. Each $ , principal amount notes was convertible into shares Microsoft common stock conversion price $ per share. June , , the net carrying amount the convertible debt and the unamortized discount were $ billion and $ million, respectively. connection with the issuance the notes , entered into capped call transactions with certain option counterparties with strike price equal the conversion price the notes. Upon conversion the notes June , exercised the capped calls. The bulk the capped calls were physically settled acquiring million shares our own common stock for $ million. The remaining capped calls were net cash settled for $ million. Credit Facility June , established commercial paper program for the issuance and sale $ billion commercial paper. June , , have not issued any commercial paper under this program. June , entered into $ billion credit facility, which will serve back- for our commercial paper program. June , , were compliance with the only financial covenant the credit agreement, which requires maintain coverage ratio least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense, defined the credit agreement. The credit facility expires June , . amounts were drawn against the credit facility since its inception. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue June , comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either inception the agreement annually the beginning each coverage period and accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue June , also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and prepaid points; OEM minimum commitments; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Three Months Ending, September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Total $ , Share Repurchases September , , announced that our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , . June , , approximately $ billion remained the $ billion approved repurchase amount. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without notice. PART Item During the periods reported, repurchased with cash resources: million shares for $ billion during fiscal year ; million shares for $ billion during fiscal year ; and million shares for $ billion during fiscal year . Dividends During fiscal years and , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , November , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluating estimated losses these indemnifications, consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and our ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. These obligations did not have material impact our financial statements during the periods presented. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) - - Thereafter Total Long-term debt: ( ) Principal payments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Interest payments , , Construction commitments ( ) Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , , Other long-term liabilities ( ) Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) These amounts represent commitments for the construction buildings, building improvements, and leasehold improvements. ( ) These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities leases. ( ) These amounts represent purchase commitments, including all open purchase orders and all contracts that are take- -pay contracts that are not presented construction commitments above. PART Item ( ) have excluded long-term tax contingencies, other tax liabilities, and deferred income taxes $ billion and other long-term contingent liabilities $ million (related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits) from the amounts presented, the amounts that will settled cash are not known and the timing any payments uncertain. have also excluded unearned revenue and non-cash items. Other Planned Uses Capital will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. expect capital expenditures increase coming years support our cloud and devices strategy. have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability capital resources. Liquidity earn significant amount our operating income outside the ., which deemed permanently reinvested foreign jurisdictions. result, discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held foreign subsidiaries. currently not intend nor foresee need repatriate these funds. expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations continue sufficient fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and material capital expenditures, for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. addition, expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations continue sufficient fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such material capital expenditures, for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should require more capital the . than generated our operations domestically, for example fund significant discretionary activities, such business acquisitions and share repurchases, could elect repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions raise capital the . through debt equity issuances. These alternatives could result higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, dilution our earnings. have borrowed funds domestically and continue believe have the ability reasonable interest rates. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance September , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued guidance testing goodwill for impairment. The new guidance provides entity the option first perform qualitative assessment determine whether more likely than not that the fair value reporting unit less than its carrying amount. entity determines that this the case, required perform the two-step goodwill impairment test identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount goodwill impairment loss recognized for that reporting unit ( any). entity determines that the fair value reporting unit greater than its carrying amount, the two-step goodwill impairment test not required. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. June , the FASB issued guidance presentation comprehensive income. The new guidance eliminated the option report other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94) and its components the statement changes stockholders\x92 equity. Instead, entity required present either continuous statement net income and OCI two separate but consecutive statements. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance resulted only changes presentation our financial statements. PART Item Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted December , the FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature entity\x92 right offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure the gross amounts subject rights set-off, amounts offset accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related net exposure. January , the FASB clarified that the scope this guidance applies derivatives, including bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are either offset subject enforceable master netting arrangement, similar agreements. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. February , the FASB issued guidance disclosure requirements for items reclassified out accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94). This new guidance requires entities present (either the face the income statement the notes) the effects the line items the income statement for amounts reclassified out AOCI. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. March , the FASB issued guidance parent\x92 accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition subsidiary group assets within foreign entity. This new guidance requires that the parent release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only the sale transfer results the complete substantially complete liquidation the foreign entity which the subsidiary group assets had resided. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether the vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value exists for those elements. portion revenue may recorded unearned due undelivered elements. Changes the elements software arrangement, the ability identify the VSOE for those elements, and the fair value the respective elements could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. Certain volume licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive unspecified future versions software products (\x93Software Assurance\x94) and are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the coverage period. Software updates are evaluated case- -case basis determine whether they meet the definition upgrade, which may require revenue deferred and recognized when the upgrade delivered, determined that implied post-contract customer support (\x93PCS\x94) being provided, revenue from the arrangement deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term. updates are determined not meet the definition upgrade, revenue generally recognized products are shipped made available. Windows will enable new hardware, further the integration with other Microsoft services and address customer issues with Windows , and will provided Windows customers when available additional charge. evaluated Windows and determined that did not meet the definition upgrade and thus have not deferred revenue related this planned release. PART Item Windows revenue was subject deferral result the Windows Upgrade Offer, which started June , . The offer provided significantly discounted rights purchase Windows Pro qualifying end-users that purchased Windows PCs during the eligibility period. Microsoft was responsible for delivering Windows Pro the end customer. Accordingly, revenue related the allocated discount for undelivered Windows was deferred until was delivered the redemption period expired. Microsoft Office system revenue was subject deferral result the Office Upgrade Offer, which started October , . The Office Upgrade Offer allowed customers who purchased qualifying Microsoft Office system Office for Mac products receive, cost, one-year subscription Office Home Premium the equivalent version Microsoft Office system upon general availability. Small business customers applicable markets were also eligible for three-month trial Office Small Business Premium. Accordingly, estimated revenue related the undelivered Microsoft Office system and subscription services was deferred until the products and services were delivered the redemption period expired. Impairment Investment Securities review investments quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. Goodwill allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the business combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, estimation the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. The estimates used calculate the fair value reporting unit change from year year based operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product are charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all PART Item software costs are capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position are measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated average cost, subject the lower cost market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. These reviews include analysis demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. The determination market value and the estimated volume demand used the lower cost market analysis require significant judgment. PART Item STATEMENT MANAGEMENT\x92 RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Amy . Hood Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PART Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS are exposed economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. portion these risks hedged, but they may impact our financial statements. Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Interest Rate Our fixed-income portfolio diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily investment-grade securities. The credit risk and average maturity the fixed-income portfolio managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency and mortgage-backed securities. Equity Our equity portfolio consists global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject market price risk. manage the securities relative certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our investment portfolio has exposure variety commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. manage these exposures relative global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. VALUE- -RISK use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, the fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94), but used risk estimation and management tool. The distribution the potential changes total market value all holdings computed based the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. The VaR calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. PART Item The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions June , and and for the year ended June , : ( millions) June , June , Year Ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Foreign currency $ $ $ $ $ Interest rate $ $ $ $ $ Equity $ $ $ $ $ Commodity $ $ $ $ $ Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , , and % less June , , than the sum the separate risk categories the above table due the diversification benefit the combination risks. PART Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Cost revenue , , , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Goodwill impairment , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PART Item COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Net unrealized gains (losses) derivatives (net tax effects $( ) , $ , and $( )) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments (net tax effects $ , $( ), and $ ) ( ) , Translation adjustments and other (net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $ ) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities loaned $ and $ ) , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories , , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net accumulated depreciation $ , and $ , , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Current portion long-term debt , , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings (deficit) , ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operations: Goodwill impairment , Depreciation, amortization, and other , , , Stock-based compensation expense , , , Net recognized losses (gains) investments and derivatives ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) Deferral unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( , ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Other current liabilities ( , ) Other long-term liabilities , , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Short-term debt repayments, maturities days less, net ( ) Proceeds from issuance debt , , Repayments debt ( , ) ( ) Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends paid ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Other ( ) ( ) Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible and other assets ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Securities lending payable ( ) ( ) , Net cash used investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect exchange rates cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) Net change cash and cash equivalents ( , ) ( , ) , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock-based compensation income tax benefits (deficiencies) ( ) ( ) Other, net Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings (deficit) Balance, beginning period ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period , ( ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income Balance, beginning period , , , Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Balance, end period , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE \x97 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Principles The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America (\x93 . GAAP\x94). Principles Consolidation The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments through which exercise significant influence over but not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary the investee\x92 activities are accounted for using the equity method. Investments through which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples estimates include: loss contingencies; product warranties; the fair value , and potential goodwill impairment for, our reporting units; product life cycles; useful lives our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for doubtful accounts; allowances for product returns; the market value our inventory; and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates. Examples assumptions include: the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94). Revenue Recognition Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Revenue generally recognized net allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted governmental authorities. Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), and perpetual licenses under certain volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped made available. Technology guarantee programs are accounted for multiple element arrangements customers receive free significantly discounted rights use upcoming new versions software product they license existing versions the product during the eligibility period. Revenue allocated between the existing product and the new product, and revenue allocated the new product deferred until that version delivered. The revenue allocation based the vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) fair value the products. The VSOE fair value for upcoming new products are based the price determined management having the relevant authority when the element not yet sold separately, but expected sold the near future the price set management. PART Item Software updates that will provided free charge are evaluated case- -case basis determine whether they meet the definition upgrade and create multiple element arrangement, which may require revenue deferred and recognized when the upgrade delivered, determined that implied post-contract customer support (\x93PCS\x94) being provided, the arrangement accounted for multiple element arrangement and all revenue from the arrangement deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term when the VSOE fair value does not exist. updates are determined not meet the definition upgrade, revenue generally recognized products are shipped made available. Windows will enable new hardware, further the integration with other Microsoft services and fix some the customer issues with Windows , and will provided Windows customers when available additional charge. evaluated Windows and determined that did not meet the definition upgrade and thus have not deferred revenue related this planned release. Certain volume licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive unspecified future versions software products (\x93Software Assurance\x94), which have determined are additional software products and are therefore accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the coverage period. Arrangements that include term based licenses for current products with the right use unspecified future versions the software during the coverage period, are also accounted for subscriptions, with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Revenue from cloud-based services arrangements that allow for the use hosted software product service over contractually determined period time without taking possession software are accounted for subscriptions with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the coverage period beginning the date the service made available customers. Revenue from cloud-based services arrangements that are provided consumption basis (for example, the amount storage used particular period) recognized commensurate with the customer utilization such resources. Some volume licensing arrangements include time-based subscriptions for cloud-based services and software offerings that are accounted for subscriptions. These arrangements are considered multiple element arrangements. However, because all elements are accounted for subscriptions and have the same coverage period and delivery pattern, they have the same revenue recognition timing. Revenue related Surface, our Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , games published , and other hardware components generally recognized when ownership transferred the resellers end customers when selling directly through Microsoft Stores. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when games are manufactured the game publishers. Display advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements recognized services are provided. Revenue from prepaid points redeemable for the purchase software services recognized upon redemption the points and delivery the software services. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold OEMs, drive traffic our websites, and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94); costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, including datacenter costs and royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized research and development costs. Capitalized research and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives the products. PART Item Product Warranty provide for the estimated costs fulfilling our obligations under hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranties, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranties, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Such costs related software development are included research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility reached, which for our software products, generally shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Once technological feasibility reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized cost revenue over the estimated lives the products. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation measure stock-based compensation cost the grant date based the fair value the award and recognize expense, net estimated forfeitures, over the vesting service period, applicable, the stock award (generally four five years) using the straight-line method. Employee Stock Purchase Plan Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the stock the last day each three-month period. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan measured the discount the employee entitled upon purchase and recognized the period purchase. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested, and interest and penalties uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net valuation allowance when more likely than not that tax benefit will not realized. The deferred income taxes are classified current long-term based the classification the related asset liability. PART Item Fair Value Measurements account for certain assets and liabilities fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels fair value based the extent which inputs used measuring fair value are observable the market. categorize each our fair value measurements one these three levels based the lowest level input that significant the fair value measurement its entirety. These levels are: \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded active markets. Our Level non-derivative investments primarily include . government securities, domestic and international equities, and actively traded mutual funds. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities include those actively traded exchanges. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques ( . the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant inputs are observable the market can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Our Level non-derivative investments consist primarily corporate notes and bonds, mortgage-backed securities, . agency securities, certificates deposit, and foreign government bonds. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and swap contracts. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models. Our Level assets primarily comprise investments certain corporate bonds and goodwill when recorded fair value due impairment charge. value the Level corporate bonds using internally developed valuation models, inputs which include interest rate curves, credit spreads, stock prices, and volatilities. certain cases, market-based observable inputs are not available and use management judgment develop assumptions determine fair value for these derivatives. Unobservable inputs used all these models are significant the fair values the assets and liabilities. measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, fair value nonrecurring basis when they are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired. The fair values these investments are determined based valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. impairment charge recorded when the cost the investment exceeds its fair value and this condition determined other-than-temporary. Our other current financial assets and our current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values. Financial Instruments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair values these investments approximate their carrying values. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments classified long-term include both debt and equity instruments. Debt and publicly-traded equity securities are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the PART Item specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost using the equity method. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. Fair value calculated based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments designated fair-value hedges, the gains (losses) are recognized earnings the periods change together with the offsetting losses (gains) the hedged items attributed the risk being hedged. For options designated fair-value hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments designated cash-flow hedges, the effective portion the gains (losses) the derivatives initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure recognized earnings. For options designated cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains (losses) derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment effectiveness hedge ineffectiveness are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that are not designated hedges, gains (losses) from changes fair values are primarily recognized other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded component OCI until the securities are sold other-than-temporarily impaired, which time the amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) into other income (expense). PART Item Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Charged costs and other Write-offs ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ Inventories Inventories are stated average cost, subject the lower cost market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. The estimated useful lives our property and equipment are generally follows: computer software developed acquired for internal use, three years; computer equipment, two three years; buildings and improvements, five years; leasehold improvements, two years; and furniture and equipment, one five years. Land not depreciated. Goodwill Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. Intangible Assets All our intangible assets are subject amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically taking into account events circumstances that may warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate the asset may impaired. Recent Accounting Guidance Recently adopted accounting guidance September , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued guidance testing goodwill for impairment. The new guidance provides entity the option first perform qualitative assessment determine whether more likely than not that the fair value reporting unit less than its carrying amount. entity determines that this the case, required perform the two-step goodwill impairment test identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount goodwill impairment loss recognized for that reporting unit ( any). entity determines that the fair value reporting unit greater than its carrying amount, the two-step goodwill impairment test not required. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance did not have material impact our financial statements. PART Item June , the FASB issued guidance presentation comprehensive income. The new guidance eliminated the option report OCI and its components the statement changes stockholders\x92 equity. Instead, entity required present either continuous statement net income and OCI two separate but consecutive statements. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance resulted only changes presentation our financial statements. Recent accounting guidance not yet adopted December , the FASB issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature entity\x92 right offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure the gross amounts subject rights set-off, amounts offset accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related net exposure. January , the FASB clarified that the scope this guidance applies derivatives, including bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are either offset subject enforceable master netting arrangement, similar agreements. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. February , the FASB issued guidance disclosure requirements for items reclassified out AOCI. This new guidance requires entities present (either the face the income statement the notes) the effects the line items the income statement for amounts reclassified out AOCI. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . Other than requiring additional disclosures, not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. March , the FASB issued guidance parent\x92 accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition subsidiary group assets within foreign entity. This new guidance requires that the parent release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only the sale transfer results the complete substantially complete liquidation the foreign entity which the subsidiary group assets had resided. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . not anticipate material impacts our financial statements upon adoption. NOTE \x97 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share (\x93EPS\x94) computed based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS computed based the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted EPS are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June , Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect stock-based awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings Per Share Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ Anti-dilutive stock-based awards excluded from the calculations diluted EPS were immaterial during the periods presented. PART Item NOTE \x97 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains investments Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Total $ $ $ Following are details net recognized gains (losses) investments during the periods reported: ( millions) Year Ended June , Other-than-temporary impairments investments $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Realized gains from sales available-for-sale securities , Realized losses from sales available-for-sale securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ NOTE \x97 INVESTMENTS Investment Components The components investments, including associated derivatives, were follows: ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds ( ) Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities ( ) Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , , Other investments , , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , PART Item ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , , Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , Municipal securities ( ) Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , , Other investments , , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Unrealized Losses Investments Investments with continuous unrealized losses for less than months and months greater and their related fair values were follows: Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , . government and agency securities $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ , $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , . government and agency securities $ $ ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based our evaluation available evidence June , . PART Item June , and , the recorded bases common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded were $ million and $ million, respectively. These investments are carried cost and are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. not practicable for reliably estimate the fair value these investments. Debt Investment Maturities ( millions) Cost Basis Estimated Fair Value June , Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through years , , Due after years , , Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 DERIVATIVES use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. All notional amounts presented below are measured . dollar equivalents. Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Option and forward contracts are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. June , and June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Foreign currency risks related certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair value hedging instruments. June , and June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ million and $ billion, respectively. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments are also used manage the variability exchange rates accounts receivable, cash, and intercompany positions, and manage other foreign currency exposures. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Equity Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject market price risk. Market price risk managed relative broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated hedging instruments. From time time, hedge our price risk, may use and designate equity derivatives hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards. June , , the total notional amounts designated and non-designated equity contracts PART Item purchased and sold were $ million and $ billion, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts designated and non-designated equity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. Interest Rate Securities held our fixed-income portfolio are subject different interest rate risks based their maturities. manage the average maturity our fixed-income portfolio achieve economic returns that correlate certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap and option contracts, none which are designated hedging instruments. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency mortgage-backed securities. These meet the definition derivative instrument cases where physical delivery the assets not taken the earliest available delivery date. June , and , the total notional derivative amounts mortgage contracts purchased were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Credit Our fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment-grade securities. use credit default swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments, manage credit exposures relative broad-based indices and facilitate portfolio diversification. use credit default swaps they are low cost method managing exposure individual credit risks groups credit risks. June , , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. use swaps, futures, and option contracts, not designated hedging instruments, generate and manage exposures broad-based commodity indices. use derivatives commodities they can low-cost alternatives the purchase and storage variety commodities, including, but not limited , precious metals, energy, and grain. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features Certain our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt maintain investment grade credit rating and require maintain minimum liquidity $ billion. the extent fail meet these requirements, will required post collateral, similar the standard convention related over-the-counter derivatives. June , , our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were excess $ billion. result, collateral was required posted. PART Item Fair Values Derivative Instruments The following tables present the gross fair values derivative instruments designated hedging instruments (\x93designated hedge derivatives\x94) and not designated hedging instruments (\x93non-designated hedge derivatives\x94). The fair values exclude the impact netting derivative assets and liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk: ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Interest Rate Contracts Credit Contracts Commodity Contracts Total Derivatives June , Assets Non-designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Total assets $ $ $ $ $ $ Liabilities Non-designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ $ $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( millions) Foreign Exchange Contracts Equity Contracts Interest Rate Contracts Credit Contracts Commodity Contracts Total Derivatives June , Assets Non-designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Designated hedge derivatives: Short-term investments $ $ $ $ $ $ Other current assets Total $ $ $ $ $ $ Total assets $ $ $ $ $ $ Liabilities Non-designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Designated hedge derivatives: Other current liabilities $ ( ) $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Total liabilities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) See also Note \x96 Investments and Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements. PART Item Fair Value Hedge Gains (Losses) recognized other income (expense) the following gains (losses) contracts designated fair value hedges and their related hedged items: ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign Exchange Contracts Derivatives $ $ $ ( ) Hedged items ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ ( ) Cash Flow Hedge Gains (Losses) recognized the following gains (losses) foreign exchange contracts designated cash flow hedges (our only cash flow hedges during the periods presented): ( millions) Year Ended June , Effective Portion Gains (losses) recognized OCI, net tax effects $ , $ and $( ) $ $ $ ( ) Gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI into revenue $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Assessment and Ineffective Portion Losses recognized other income (expense) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) estimate that $ million net derivative gains included AOCI June , will reclassified into earnings within the following months. significant amounts gains (losses) were reclassified from AOCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur during fiscal year . Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) Gains (losses) from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are primarily recognized other income (expense). These amounts are shown the table below, with the exception gains (losses) derivatives presented income statement line items other than other income (expense), which were immaterial for the periods presented. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) below are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities. ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign exchange contracts $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Equity contracts ( ) Interest-rate contracts ( ) Credit contracts ( ) ( ) Commodity contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ ( ) $ ( ) $ PART Item NOTE \x97 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The following tables present the fair value our financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis: ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ $ $ $ $ $ Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , , , , Foreign government bonds Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ $ $ $ $ $ Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , , , , Foreign government bonds , , , Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) These amounts represent the impact netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk. The changes our Level financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis were immaterial during the periods presented. PART Item The following table reconciles the total Net Fair Value assets above the balance sheet presentation these same assets Note \x96 Investments. ( millions) June , Net fair value assets measured fair value recurring basis $ , $ , Cash , , Common and preferred stock measured fair value nonrecurring basis Other investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis , , Less derivative net assets classified other current assets ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Recorded basis investment components $ , $ , Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Nonrecurring Basis During fiscal year and , did not record any material other-than-temporary impairments financial assets required measured fair value nonrecurring basis. NOTE \x97 INVENTORIES The components inventories were follows: ( millions) June , Raw materials $ $ Work process Finished goods , Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The components property and equipment were follows: ( millions) June , Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Total, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Total, net $ , $ , During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. PART Item NOTE \x97 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Yammer July , , acquired Yammer, Inc. (\x93Yammer\x94), leading provider enterprise social networks, for $ billion cash. Yammer will continue develop its standalone service and will add enterprise social networking service Microsoft\x92 portfolio complementary cloud-based services. The major classes assets which allocated the purchase price were goodwill $ million and identifiable intangible assets $ million. assigned the goodwill the Microsoft Business Division. Yammer was consolidated into our results operations starting the acquisition date. Skype October , , acquired all the issued and outstanding shares Skype Global . (\x93Skype\x94), leading global provider software applications and related Internet communications products based Luxembourg, for $ billion, primarily cash. The major classes assets and liabilities which allocated the purchase price were goodwill $ billion, identifiable intangible assets $ billion, and unearned revenue $ million. The goodwill recognized connection with the acquisition primarily attributable our expectation extending Skype\x92 brand and the reach its networked platform, while enhancing Microsoft\x92 existing portfolio real-time communications products and services. assigned the goodwill the following segments: $ billion Entertainment and Devices Division, $ billion Microsoft Business Division, and $ million Online Services Division. Skype was consolidated into our results operations starting the acquisition date. Following are the details the purchase price allocated the intangible assets acquired: ( millions) Weighted Average Life Marketing-related (trade names) $ , years Technology-based years Customer-related years Contract-based years Total $ , years Other During fiscal year , completed additional acquisitions for total consideration $ million, all which was paid cash. These entities have been included our consolidated results operations since their respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects the business combinations described this Note, individually and aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. NOTE \x97 GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill were follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions Other Balance June , Acquisitions Other Balance June , Windows Division $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Server and Tools , ( ) , ( ) , Online Services Division , ( , ) ( ) Microsoft Business Division , , ( ) , ( ) , Entertainment and Devices Division , ( ) , ( ) , Total $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , PART Item The measurement periods for purchase price allocations end soon information the facts and circumstances becomes available, but not exceed months. Adjustments purchase price allocations may require recasting the amounts allocated goodwill retroactive the periods which the acquisitions occurred. Any change the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations are presented \x93other\x94 the above table. Also included within \x93other\x94 are business dispositions and transfers between business segments due reorganizations, applicable. For fiscal year , $ billion goodwill impairment charge was included \x93other,\x94 discussed further below. This goodwill impairment charge also represented our accumulated goodwill impairment June , and . Goodwill Impairment test goodwill for impairment annually May the reporting unit level using discounted cash flow methodology with peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost capital. believe use discounted cash flow approach the most reliable indicator the fair values the businesses. impairment goodwill was identified May , . Upon completion the fiscal year test, OSD goodwill was determined impaired. The impairment was the result the OSD unit experiencing slower than projected growth search queries and search advertising revenue per query, slower growth display revenue, and changes the timing and implementation certain initiatives designed drive search and display revenue growth the future. Because our fiscal year annual test indicated that OSD\x92 carrying value exceeded its estimated fair value, second phase the goodwill impairment test (\x93Step \x94) was performed specific OSD. Under Step , the fair value all OSD assets and liabilities were estimated, including tangible assets, existing technology, trade names, and partner relationships for the purpose deriving estimate the implied fair value goodwill. The implied fair value the goodwill was then compared the recorded goodwill determine the amount the impairment. Assumptions used measuring the value these assets and liabilities included the discount rates, royalty rates, and obsolescence rates used valuing the intangible assets, and pricing comparable transactions the market valuing the tangible assets. other instances impairment were identified our May , test. NOTE \x97 INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components intangible assets, all which are finite-lived, were follows: ( millions) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Year Ended June , Technology-based ( ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Marketing-related , ( ) , , ( ) , Contract-based ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) Technology-based intangible assets included $ million and $ million June , and , respectively, net carrying amount software sold, leased, otherwise marketed. estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. material impairments intangible assets were identified during any the periods presented. PART Item The components intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were follows: ( millions) Amount Weighted Average Life Amount Weighted Average Life Year Ended June , Technology-based $ years $ , years Marketing-related years , years Contract-based years Customer-related years years Total $ years $ , years Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. Amortization capitalized software was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets held June , : ( millions) Year Ending June , $ Thereafter , Total $ , NOTE \x97 DEBT June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. This compared carrying value and estimated fair value $ billion and $ billion, respectively, June , . These estimated fair values are based Level inputs. PART Item The components our long-term debt, including the current portion, and the associated interest rates were follows June , and : Due Date Face Value June , Face Value June , Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate ( millions) Notes September , $ , $ , % % June , , , % % September , , , % % February , % % November , ( ) * % % May , ( ) * % % June , , , % % October , , , % % February , % % November , ( ) * % % May , ( ) , * % % May , ( ) * % % June , % % October , , , % % February , , , % % November , ( ) * % % May , ( ) * % % Total , , Convertible Debt June , , % % Total $ , $ , ( ) November , issued $ billion debt securities. ( ) April , issued $ billion debt securities. ( ) April , issued \x80 million debt securities. * Not applicable. June , and , the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $ million and $ million, respectively. Notes The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. Convertible Debt June , paid cash $ billion for the principal amount our zero coupon convertible unsecured debt and elected deliver cash for the $ million excess obligation resulting from the conversion the notes. Each $ , principal amount notes was convertible into shares Microsoft common stock conversion price $ per share. June , , the net carrying amount the convertible debt and the unamortized discount were $ billion and $ million, respectively. connection with the issuance the notes , entered into capped call transactions with certain option counterparties with strike price equal the conversion price the notes. Upon conversion the notes June PART Item , exercised the capped calls. The bulk the capped calls were physically settled acquiring million shares our own common stock for $ million. The remaining capped calls were net cash settled for $ million. Debt Service Maturities our long-term debt for each the next five years and thereafter are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ , , , Thereafter , Total $ , Interest the notes paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities which interest paid annually. Cash paid for interest our debt for fiscal years , , and was $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Credit Facility June , established commercial paper program for the issuance and sale $ billion commercial paper. June , , have not issued any commercial paper under this program. June , entered into $ billion credit facility, which will serve back- for our commercial paper program. June , , were compliance with the only financial covenant the credit agreement, which requires maintain coverage ratio least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense, defined the credit agreement. The credit facility expires June , . amounts were drawn against the credit facility since its inception. NOTE \x97 INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Current Taxes . federal $ , $ , $ , . state and local International , , , Current taxes , , , Deferred Taxes Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , PART Item . and international components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the . federal statutory rate and our effective rate were follows: Year Ended June , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Goodwill impairment % % % . settlement % % ( )% Other reconciling items, net % % ( )% Effective rate % % % The reduction from the federal statutory rate from foreign earnings taxed lower rates results from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Our foreign earnings, which are taxed rates lower than the . rate and are generated from our regional operating centers, were %, %, and % our international income before tax fiscal years , , and , respectively. general, other reconciling items consist interest, . state income taxes, domestic production deductions, and credits. fiscal years , , and , there were individually significant other reconciling items. The . settlement discussed below. PART Item The components the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June , Deferred Income Tax Assets Stock-based compensation expense $ $ Other expense items Unearned revenue Impaired investments Loss carryforwards Other revenue items Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Less valuation allowance ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax assets, net valuation allowance $ , $ , Deferred Income Tax Liabilities International earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( , ) ( ) Depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) $ ( ) $ Reported Current deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) $ ( ) $ June , , had net operating loss carryforwards $ billion, including $ billion foreign net operating loss carryforwards acquired through our acquisition Skype. The valuation allowance disclosed the table above relates the foreign net operating loss carryforwards that may not realized. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when the taxes are actually paid recovered. June , , have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the . The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences was approximately $ billion June , . Income taxes paid were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. Uncertain Tax Positions June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. June , , had $ billion unrecognized tax benefits which $ billion, recognized, would have affected our effective tax rate. Interest unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. June , , , and , had accrued interest related uncertain tax positions $ billion, $ million, and $ million, respectively, net federal income tax benefits. PART Item The aggregate changes the balance unrecognized tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ , $ , $ , Decreases related settlements ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases for tax positions related the current year Increases for tax positions related prior years Decreases for tax positions related prior years ( ) ( ) ( ) Decreases due lapsed statutes limitations ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ , $ , $ , During the third quarter fiscal year , reached settlement portion . audit tax years , which reduced our income tax expense $ million. While settled portion the . audit, remain under audit for these years. February , the . withdrew its Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase the examination. June , , the primary unresolved issue relates transfer pricing, which could have significant impact our financial statements not resolved favorably. believe our allowances for tax contingencies are appropriate. not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months, because not believe the remaining open issues will resolved within the next months. also continue subject examination the . for tax years . are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the . Our operations certain jurisdictions remain subject examination for tax years , some which are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolutions these audits are not expected material our financial statements. NOTE \x97 UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs, and payments for offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Volume Licensing Programs Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid either inception the agreement annually the beginning each coverage period and accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Other Also included unearned revenue are payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and prepaid points; OEM minimum commitments; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. PART Item The components unearned revenue were follows: ( millions) June , Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Other ( ) , , Total $ , $ , ( ) Other June , included $ million unearned revenue associated with sales Windows with option upgrade Windows Pro discounted price (the \x93Windows Upgrade Offer\x94). Unearned revenue segment was follows: ( millions) June , Windows Division $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Microsoft Business Division , , Other segments , , Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June , Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ , $ , Legal contingencies Other Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES Construction and Operating Leases have committed $ million for constructing new buildings, building improvements, and leasehold improvements June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for facilities operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable facilities operating leases place June , are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ Thereafter Total $ , PART Item Indemnifications provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications, and consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our financial statements. NOTE \x97 CONTINGENCIES Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits were filed against various state, federal, and Canadian courts behalf various classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain other software products between and . obtained dismissals reached settlements all claims made the United States. All settlements the United States have received final court approval. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them reimbursed for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers may issue varies state. will make available certain schools percentage those vouchers that are not issued claimed (one-half two-thirds depending the state). The total value vouchers ultimately issue will depend the number class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. The maximum value vouchers issued approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools that are issued and redeem vouchers. estimate the total cost resolve all the state overcharge class action cases will range between $ billion and $ billion. June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ million, which reflects our estimated exposure $ billion less payments made date approximately $ billion mostly for vouchers, legal fees, and administrative expenses. The three cases pending British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, Canada have not been settled. March , the court the British Columbia case certified class action. April , the British Columbia Court Appeal reversed the class certification ruling and dismissed the case, holding that indirect purchasers not have claim. The plaintiffs have filed appeal the Canadian Supreme Court, which was heard the fall . The other two actions have been stayed. Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims November , Novell, Inc. (\x93Novell\x94) filed complaint . District Court for the District Utah (later transferred federal court Maryland), asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four Novell\x92 six claims. March , the trial court granted summary judgment favor Microsoft all remaining claims. The court appeals reversed that ruling one claim. Trial that claim took place from October December and resulted mistrial because the jury was unable reach verdict. July , the trial court granted Microsoft\x92 motion for judgment matter law. Novell has appealed this decision the . Court Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which heard oral arguments May . Patent and Intellectual Property Claims Motorola Litigation October , Microsoft filed patent infringement complaints against Motorola Mobility (\x93Motorola\x94) with the International Trade Commission (\x93ITC\x94) and . District Court Seattle for infringement nine Microsoft patents PART Item Motorola\x92 Android devices. Since then, Microsoft and Motorola have filed additional claims against each other the ITC, federal district courts Seattle, Wisconsin, Florida, and California, and courts Germany and the United Kingdom. April , following complaints Microsoft and Apple, the European Union\x92 competition office opened two antitrust investigations against Motorola determine whether has abused certain its standard essential patents distort competition breach European Union antitrust rules. June , received request for information from the . Federal Trade Commission (\x93FTC\x94) apparently related FTC investigation into whether Motorola\x92 conduct violates . law. The nature the claims asserted and status individual matters are summarized below. International Trade Commission The hearing Microsoft\x92 ITC case against Motorola took place August seven the nine patents originally asserted the complaint. December , the administrative law judge (\x93ALJ\x94) issued initial determination that Motorola infringed one Microsoft patent, and recommended that the ITC issue limited exclusion order against Motorola prohibiting importation infringing Motorola Android devices. May , the ITC issued the limited exclusion order recommended the ALJ, which became effective July , . Microsoft has appealed certain aspects the ITC ruling adverse Microsoft and Motorola has appealed the ITC exclusion order the Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit. addition, July , Microsoft filed action . district court Washington, . seeking order compel enforcement the ITC\x92 May import ban against infringing Motorola products the Bureau Customs and Border Protection (\x93CBP\x94), after learning that CBP had failed fully enforce the order. November , Motorola filed action against Microsoft the ITC alleging infringement five Motorola patents Xbox consoles and accessories and seeking exclusion order prohibit importation the allegedly infringing Xbox products into the . April , the ALJ found that Xbox products infringe four the five patents asserted Motorola. The ALJ recommended that the ITC issue limited exclusion order and cease and desist order. Both Microsoft and Motorola sought ITC review the ALJ\x92 findings. June , Microsoft filed motion terminate the investigation certain patents based facts arising the result Google\x92 acquisition Motorola. The ITC determined that would review the ALJ\x92 initial determination its entirety and remanded the matter the ALJ ( ) apply certain ITC case precedent, ( ) rule Microsoft\x92 June motion terminate, and ( ) set new target date for completion the investigation. The ALJ held hearing December and set target date for final ITC ruling July . Motorola\x92 request, the ITC terminated its investigation four Motorola patents, leaving only one Motorola patent issue before the ITC. March , the ALJ ruled that there has been violation the remaining Motorola patent. Motorola sought ITC review the ALJ\x92 determination, which the ITC denied May . . District Court The Seattle District Court case filed October Microsoft companion Microsoft\x92 ITC case against Motorola has been stayed pending the outcome Microsoft\x92 ITC case. November , Microsoft sued Motorola for breach contract . District Court Seattle, alleging that Motorola breached its commitments standards-setting organizations license Microsoft certain patents reasonable and non-discriminatory (\x93RAND\x94) terms and conditions. Motorola has declared these patents essential the implementation the video standard and the - standard. suits described below, Motorola Motorola affiliate subsequently sued Microsoft those patents . District Courts, the ITC, and Germany. February , the Seattle District Court granted partial summary judgment favor Microsoft ruling that ( ) Motorola entered into binding contractual commitments with standards organizations committing license its declared-essential patents RAND terms and conditions; and ( ) Microsoft third-party beneficiary those commitments. The court rejected Motorola\x92 argument that Microsoft had repudiated its right RAND license, and ruled trial needed determine whether Motorola breach its obligation enter into patent license with Microsoft and, , the amount the RAND royalty. April , the court issued temporary restraining order preventing Motorola from taking steps enforce injunction Germany relating the video patents. May , the court converted that order into preliminary injunction. Motorola appealed the court\x92 injunction PART Item orders the Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which affirmed the orders September . The Seattle District Court held trial November determine the RAND royalty for Motorola\x92 and patents. December , the Seattle District Court ruled that Motorola could not obtain injunctive relief connection with any its claims for infringement its and patents. April , the court set per unit royalties for Motorola\x92 and patents, which resulted immaterial Microsoft liability. Trial Microsoft\x92 breach contract claim set for August , . Cases filed Motorola Wisconsin, California, and Florida, with the exception one currently stayed case Wisconsin ( companion case Motorola\x92 ITC action), have been transferred the District Court Seattle. Motorola and Microsoft both seek damages well injunctive relief. trial dates have been set any the transferred cases, and the court has stayed these cases agreement the parties. \x95 the transferred cases, Motorola asserts patents are infringed many Microsoft products including Windows Mobile and Windows Phone , Windows Marketplace, Silverlight, Windows Vista and Windows , Exchange Server and later, Exchange ActiveSync, Windows Live Messenger, Lync Server , Outlook , Office , SQL Server, Internet Explorer , Xbox, and Kinect. \x95 the Motorola action originally filed California, Motorola asserts that Microsoft violated antitrust laws connection with Microsoft\x92 assertion patents against Motorola that Microsoft has agreed license certain qualifying entities RAND terms and conditions. \x95 counterclaims the patent actions brought Motorola, Microsoft asserts patents are infringed Motorola Android devices and certain Motorola digital video recorders. Germany July , Motorola filed patent infringement actions Germany against Microsoft and several Microsoft subsidiaries. \x95 Two the patents are asserted Motorola essential implementation the video standard, and Motorola alleges that capable products including Xbox , Windows , Media Player, and Internet Explorer infringe those patents. Motorola seeks damages and injunction. May , the court issued injunction relating all capable Microsoft products Germany. However, due orders the separate litigation pending Seattle, Washington described above, Motorola enjoined from taking steps enforce the German injunction. Damages would determined later proceedings. Microsoft has appealed the rulings the first instance court. \x95 Motorola asserts one the patents covers certain syncing functionality the ActiveSync protocol employed Windows Phone , Outlook Mobile, Hotmail Mobile, Exchange Online, Exchange Server, and Hotmail Server. Motorola seeks damages and injunction. April , the court stayed the case pending the outcome parallel proceedings which Microsoft seeking invalidate the patent. \x95 Should injunction order issued and enforced Motorola, Microsoft may able mitigate the adverse impact altering its products avoid Motorola\x92 infringement claims. lawsuits Microsoft filed Germany September, October, and December and April , Microsoft asserts Motorola Android devices infringe Microsoft patents. Microsoft seeks damages and injunction. May, July, and September , courts Germany issued injunctions three patents against Motorola Android devices and May and July ruled against Microsoft two patents. Microsoft taking steps enforce the injunctions. Damages will determined later proceedings. Each party has appealed expected appeal the rulings against . Motorola also seeking invalidate Microsoft\x92 patents parallel court proceedings. United Kingdom December , Microsoft filed action against Motorola the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, London, England, seeking revoke the part the European patent asserted Motorola Germany against the ActiveSync protocol. February , Motorola counterclaimed alleging infringement the PART Item patent and seeking damages and injunction. trial took place December , and the court ruled that Motorola\x92 patent invalid and revoked. The court also ruled that the patent, even valid, would licensed under the grant-back clause Google\x92 ActiveSync license. Motorola has appealed. Other Patent and Intellectual Property Claims addition these cases, there are approximately other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft. Other also are subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial statements, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities $ million other current liabilities and $ million other long-term liabilities for all our legal matters that were contingencies that date. While intend defend these matters vigorously, adverse outcomes that estimate could reach approximately $ million aggregate beyond recorded amounts are reasonably possible. Were unfavorable final outcomes occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial statements for the period which the effects become reasonably estimable. NOTE \x97 STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares Outstanding Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , Share Repurchases September , , announced that our Board Directors approved share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases with expiration date September , . June , , approximately $ billion the approved repurchase amount remained. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased the following shares common stock under the above-described repurchase plan using cash resources: ( millions) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Year Ended June , First quarter $ , $ , $ , Second quarter , , , Third quarter , , Fourth quarter , , , Total $ , $ , $ , PART Item Dividends fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , November , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , December , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . NOTE \x97 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The activity other comprehensive income (loss) and related income tax effects were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) Derivatives Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $ , $ , and $( ) $ $ $ ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included net income, net tax effects $( ) , $ , and $ ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) derivatives $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) Investments Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $ , $( ), and $ $ $ ( ) $ , Reclassification adjustment for gains included net income, net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments ( ) , Translation adjustments and other, net tax effects $( ) , $( ) and $ ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ PART Item The components accumulated other comprehensive income were follows: ( millions) June , Net unrealized gains (losses) derivatives $ $ $ ( ) Net unrealized gains investments , , , Translation adjustments and other ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , NOTE \x97 EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS grant stock-based compensation directors and employees. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, covering stock options, stock awards, and leadership stock awards. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. issue new shares Microsoft common stock satisfy exercises and vesting awards granted under all our stock plans. Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ Stock Plans (Excluding Stock Options) Stock awards Stock awards (\x93SAs\x94) are grants that entitle the holder shares Microsoft common stock the award vests. SAs generally vest over five-year period. Leadership stock awards Leadership stock awards (\x93LSAs\x94) are form SAs which the number shares ultimately received depends our business performance against specified performance metrics. LSAs replaced shared performance stock awards (\x93SPSA\x94) fiscal year . Shares previously issued under the SPSA program will continue vest ratably under their original term, generally with three-year remaining service period. base number LSAs are granted each fiscal year, which represents the performance period for the awards. Following the end the performance period, the number shares can increased % certain performance metrics are met. One quarter the awarded shares will vest one year after the grant date. The remaining shares will vest semi-annually during the following three years. Executive incentive plan Under the Executive Incentive Plan (\x93EIP\x94), the Compensation Committee awards performance-based compensation comprising both cash and SAs executive officers and certain senior executives. For executive officers, their awards are based aggregate incentive pool equal percentage consolidated operating income. For fiscal years , , and , the pool was %, %, and % operating income, respectively. The SAs vest ratably August each the four years following the grant date. The final cash awards will determined after each performance period based individual and business performance. PART Item Activity for all stock plans The fair value each award was estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: Year Ended June , Dividends per share (quarterly amounts) $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value ( millions) Stock Awards Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Nonvested balance, end year $ June , , there was approximately $ billion total unrecognized compensation costs related stock awards. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years. During fiscal year and , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: ( millions, except fair values) Stock Awards Awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Total vest-date fair value stock awards vested was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, for fiscal years , , and , respectively. Stock Options Currently, grant stock options primarily conjunction with business acquisitions. granted two million, six million, and zero stock options conjunction with business acquisitions during fiscal years , , and , respectively. Employee stock options activity during was follows: Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( millions) (Years) ( millions) Balance, July , $ Granted $ Exercised ( ) $ Canceled ( ) $ Balance, June , $ $ Exercisable, June , $ $ PART Item June , , approximately four million options that were granted conjunction with business acquisitions were outstanding. These options have exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . During the periods reported, the following stock option exercise activity occurred: ( millions) Total intrinsic value stock options exercised $ $ $ Cash received from stock option exercises $ $ , $ , Tax benefit realized from stock option exercises $ $ $ Employee Stock Purchase Plan have employee stock purchase plan (the \x93Plan\x94) for all eligible employees. Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last trading day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented: (Shares millions) Year Ended June , Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares our common stock were reserved for future issuance through the Plan. Savings Plan have savings plan the . that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively, and were expensed contributed. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. NOTE \x97 SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA its operation the business, management, including our chief operating decision maker, the company\x92 Chief Executive Officer, reviews certain financial information, including segmented internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segment information within this note reported that basis. During the periods presented, our five segments were Windows Division, Server and Tools, Online Services Division, Microsoft Business Division, and Entertainment and Devices Division. During the three months ended December , , changed the name our Windows & Windows Live Division Windows Division. Due the integrated structure our business, certain revenue earned and costs incurred one segment may benefit other segments. Revenue certain contracts may allocated among the segments based the relative value the underlying products and services. Costs that are identifiable are allocated the segments that benefit incent cross-collaboration among our segments that one segment not solely burdened the cost mutually beneficial activity. Allocated costs may include those relating development and marketing products and services from which multiple segments benefit, those costs relating services performed one segment behalf other segments. Each allocation measured differently based the specific facts and circumstances the costs being allocated. PART Item addition, certain costs incurred corporate level that are identifiable and that benefit our segments are allocated them. These allocated costs include costs : field selling; employee benefits; shared facilities services; and customer service and support. Each allocation measured differently based the specific facts and circumstances the costs being allocated. Certain other corporate-level activity not allocated our segments, including costs : broad-based sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; legal settlements and contingencies; and employee severance. have recast certain prior period amounts within this note conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during the current fiscal year, reflecting immaterial movements business activities between segments and changes cost allocations. July , announced change organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. evolve how allocate resources and analyze performance the new structure, possible that our segments may change. The principal products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Windows Division \x96 Windows Division offerings consist the Windows operating system, Surface, and accessories. Server and Tools \x96 Server and Tools product and service offerings include Windows Server, Windows Azure, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Intune, Windows Embedded, Visual Studio, System Center products, and Enterprise Services. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Online Services Division \x96 Online Services Division offerings include Bing, Bing Ads, and MSN. Microsoft Business Division \x96 Microsoft Business Division offerings include Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, Yammer, Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, and Office . Entertainment and Devices Division \x96 Entertainment and Devices Division offerings include the Xbox gaming and entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox , Xbox video games, Xbox accessories, Xbox LIVE, Skype, and Windows Phone. Segment revenue and operating income (loss) were follows during the periods presented: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue Windows Division $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Division , , , Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , , , Corporate and other ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , PART Item ( millions) Year Ended June , Operating Income (Loss) Windows Division $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Online Services Division ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Microsoft Business Division , , , Entertainment and Devices Division , Corporate and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Reconciling amounts the tables above and below include adjustments conform our internal accounting policies . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, and depreciation. Significant reconciling items were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Corporate-level activity ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level activity excludes revenue reconciling amounts presented separately that line item. ( ) Revenue reconciling amounts for fiscal year and include the deferral and subsequent recognition, respectively, $ million revenue related the Windows Upgrade Offer. sales individual customer country other than the United States accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes billings OEMs and certain multinational organizations because the nature these businesses and the impracticability determining the geographic source the revenue. Revenue from external customers, classified significant product and service offerings were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Microsoft Office system $ , $ , $ , Windows operating systems for computing devices , , , Server products and tools , , , Xbox platform , , , Consulting and product support services , , , Advertising , , , Other , , , Total $ , $ , $ , PART Item Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment, and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified the location the controlling statutory company and with countries over % the total shown separately, were follows: ( millions) June , United States $ , $ , $ , Luxembourg , , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , NOTE \x97 QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) ( millions, except per share amounts) Quarter Ended September December March June Total Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) ( ) Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Includes charge related fine imposed the European Commission March which decreased net income $ million ( \x80 million) and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes charge for Surface inventory adjustments recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , which decreased net income $ million and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes charge related fine imposed the European Commission March which decreased net income $ million ( \x80 million) and diluted earnings per share $ . Also includes charge for Surface inventory adjustments recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , which decreased net income $ million and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes goodwill impairment charge related our OSD business segment which decreased net income $ billion and diluted earnings per share $ . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation Redmond, Washington have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting June , ; their report included Item . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation Redmond, Washington have audited the internal control over financial reporting Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , , the Company and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this Form - . Information about our directors may found under the caption \x93Our Director Nominees\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption \x93Board Committees\x94 the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com investor MSFinanceCode. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature the amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Director Compensation,\x94 \x93Named Executive Officer Compensation,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,\x94 and \x93Compensation Committee Report\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions \x93Director Independence\x94 and \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services Independent Auditor\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PART Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Form - , indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. Index Financial Statements Page ( ) Exhibit Listing Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation - Form Indenture between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee (\x93Base Indenture\x94) -ASR Form First Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Base Indenture - Form Second Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated September , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Third Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated February , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - Fourth Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated November , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Officers\x92 Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee - Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date * Executive Officer Incentive Plan - * Form Executive Incentive Plan Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Resignation Agreement and Full and Final Release Claims between Microsoft Corporation and Steven Sinofsky Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ** Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ** Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act INS XBRL Instance Document SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement ** Furnished, not filed ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}