{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft was founded . Our mission enable people and organizations throughout the world more and achieve more creating technology that transforms the way people learn, work, play, and communicate. develop and market software, services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value people\x92 lives. business worldwide and have offices more than countries. generate revenue developing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products and services, designing, manufacturing, and selling devices, and delivering relevant online advertising global customer audience. addition selling individual products and services, offer suites products and services. Our products include operating systems for computing devices, servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; productivity applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. also design and sell hardware including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, phones, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. offer cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, and content over the Internet way shared computing resources located centralized data centers. Examples cloud-based computing services offer include Bing, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Office , OneDrive, Skype, Xbox Live, and Yammer. Cloud revenue earned primarily from usage fees, advertising, and subscriptions. also provide consulting and product and solution support services, and train and certify computer system integrators and developers. conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software, devices, and services. believe that will continue grow and meet our customers\x92 needs the productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. will continue create new opportunities for partners, increase customer satisfaction, and improve our service excellence, business efficacy, and internal processes. OPERATING SEGMENTS During the first quarter fiscal year , changed our organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. result, information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes allocating resources and assessing performance changed. Therefore, beginning fiscal year , reported our financial performance based our new segments: Devices and Consumer (\x93 & \x94) Licensing, & Hardware, & Other, Commercial Licensing, and Commercial Other. PART Item April , , completed the transaction acquire substantially all Nokia Corporation\x92 (\x93Nokia\x94) Devices and Services Business (\x93NDS\x94). report the financial performance NDS our new Phone Hardware segment. Prior the acquisition NDS, financial results associated with our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia were reflected our & Licensing segment. The contractual relationship with Nokia related those initiatives terminated conjunction with the acquisition. With the creation the new Phone Hardware segment, the & Hardware segment was renamed Computing and Gaming Hardware the fourth quarter fiscal year . Our segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide framework for timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. Additional information our operating segments and geographic and product information contained Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements. Devices and Consumer Our & segments develop, manufacture, market, and support products and services designed increase personal productivity, help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, entertain and connect people, and help advertisers connect with audiences. Our & segments are made & Licensing, Computing and Gaming Hardware, Phone Hardware, and & Other. & Licensing The principal products and services provided the & Licensing segment are: Windows, including original equipment manufacturer (\x93OEM\x94) licensing (\x93Windows OEM\x94) and other non-volume licensing and academic volume licensing the Windows operating system and related software; non-volume licensing Microsoft Office, comprising the core Office product set, for consumers (\x93Office Consumer\x94); Windows Phone operating system, including related patent licensing; and certain other patent licensing revenue. The Windows operating system designed empower individuals, companies, and organizations simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. Windows revenue growth impacted significantly the number Windows operating system licenses purchased OEMs, which they pre-install the devices they sell. addition computing device market volume, Windows revenue impacted : \x95 the mix computing devices based form factor and screen size; \x95 differences device market demand between developed markets and emerging markets; \x95 attachment Windows devices shipped; \x95 customer mix between consumer, small and medium sized businesses, and large enterprises; \x95 changes inventory levels the OEM channel; \x95 pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders large, multinational OEMs, and different pricing Windows versions licensed; \x95 piracy; and \x95 sales packaged software. The versions Office included our & Licensing segment are designed increase personal productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Growth depends our ability add value the core product set and continue expand our product offerings other areas such content management and collaboration. Office Consumer revenue impacted sales customers that buy Office with their new devices and product launches, well the transition Office Consumer, our subscription-based cloud service that provides access Office plus other productivity services. Office Consumer revenue included our & Other segment. PART Item The Windows Phone operating system designed bring users closer the people, applications, and content they need. noted above, prior our acquisition NDS, Microsoft and Nokia jointly created new mobile products and services and extended established products and services new markets through strategic alliance. Windows Phone revenue associated with this contractual relationship was reflected & Licensing. Windows Phone revenue also includes revenue from licensing mobile-related patents. Competition The Windows operating system faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. believe Windows competes effectively giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity, and the largest support network for any operating system. Competitors the versions Office included & Licensing include global application vendors such Apple and Google, numerous web-based competitors, and local application developers Asia and Europe. Apple distributes versions its pre-installed application software, such email, note taking, and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Google provides hosted messaging and productivity suite and distributes its productivity services through the Android and Chrome operating systems. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves alternatives our products. believe our products compete effectively based our strategy providing powerful, flexible, secure, and easy use solutions that work across variety devices. Windows Phone operating system faces competition from iOS, Android, and Blackberry operating systems. Windows Phone competes based differentiated user interface, personalized applications, compatibility with Windows PCs and tablets, and other unique capabilities. Computing and Gaming Hardware The principal products and services provided the Computing and Gaming Hardware segment are: Xbox gaming and entertainment consoles and accessories, second-party and third-party video game royalties, and Xbox Live subscriptions (\x93Xbox Platform\x94); Surface devices and accessories; and Microsoft accessories. The Xbox Platform designed provide unique variety entertainment choices through the use our devices, peripherals, content, and online services. released Xbox and Xbox One November and November , respectively. Surface devices are designed help organizations, students, and consumers more productive, offering accessories and compatibility with peripherals. Surface devices were first released October . Our latest Surface device, the Surface Pro , was released June . Competition Our Xbox Platform competes with console platforms from Sony and Nintendo, both which have large, established base customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five ten years. Nintendo released their latest generation console November . Sony released their latest generation console November . believe the success gaming and entertainment consoles determined the availability games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability the console, and the ability create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. addition Sony and Nintendo, compete with other providers entertainment services through online marketplaces. believe the Xbox Platform effectively positioned against competitive products and services based significant innovation hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises well other digital content offerings. PART Item Surface devices face competition from computer, tablet, and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners and customers. Phone Hardware The principal products and services provided the new Phone Hardware segment are Lumia Smartphones and other non-Lumia phones, which began manufacturing and selling with the acquisition NDS April , . Competition Our phones face competition primarily from Samsung and Apple, well many other mobile device manufacturers. believe our phones will compete being tailored for virtually every demographic and geography worldwide, offering unique industrial design and imaging technologies high and low ranges price points, and incorporating Microsoft\x92 digital work and digital life experiences. & Other The principal products and services provided the & Other segment are: Resale, including the Windows Store, Xbox Live transactions, and the Windows Phone Store; search advertising; display advertising; Office Consumer, comprising Office Home and Office Personal; Studios, comprising first-party video games; and our retail stores. Windows Store and Windows Phone Store are online application marketplaces that are designed benefit our developers and partner ecosystems providing access large customer base and benefit users providing centralized access certified applications. Xbox Live transactions consist online entertainment content, such games, music, movies, and shows, accessible Xbox consoles and other devices. Search and display advertising includes Bing, Bing Ads, MSN, Windows Services, and Xbox ads. are the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites worldwide. have completed the Yahoo! worldwide algorithmic transition and the paid search transition the . and planned international markets. Office Consumer designed increase personal productivity through range Microsoft Office programs and services delivered across multiple platforms via the cloud. Studios designs and markets games for Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and online. Growth depends our ability attract new users and increase engagement developing deep library content which consumers seek. Competition face competition for our Resale products and services from various online marketplaces, including those operated Amazon, Apple, and Google. Our search and display advertising business competes with Google and wide array websites, social platforms like Facebook, and portals like Yahoo! that provide content and online offerings end users. Our success depends our ability attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings. believe can attract new users continuing offer new and compelling products and services. differentiate our offerings providing broad selection content that helps users make faster, informed decisions, and take action more quickly providing relevant search results, expanded search services, and deeply-integrated social recommendations. Competitors Office Consumer are the same those discussed above for Office Consumer. PART Item Competitors Studios are the same those discussed above for our Xbox gaming and entertainment business, well game studios like Electronic Arts and Activision Blizzard. Commercial Our Commercial segments develop, market, and support software and services designed increase individual, team, and organization productivity and efficiency, and simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. Commercial made the Commercial Licensing and Commercial Other segments. Commercial Licensing The principal products and services provided the Commercial Licensing segment are: server products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (\x93CAL\x94); Windows Embedded; volume licensing the Windows operating system, excluding academic (\x93Windows Commercial\x94); Microsoft Office for business, including Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and related CAL (\x93Office Commercial\x94); Skype; and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, excluding Dynamics CRM Online. Our server products are designed make information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed support software applications built the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Revenue comes from product revenue, including purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold OEMs, and retail packaged product. CAL provide access rights certain server and Office products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync. CAL revenue reported along with the associated server Office product. Windows Embedded extends the power Windows and the cloud intelligent systems, including the Internet Things, delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services. Windows Commercial revenue mainly affected the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance, often reflecting the number information workers licensed enterprise, and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. The versions Office Commercial Licensing are designed increase personal, team and organizational productivity through range programs, services, and software solutions. Office Commercial revenue mainly affected combination the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance and the number information workers licensed enterprise, and therefore relatively independent the number PCs sold given year. Skype designed connect friends, family, clients, and colleagues through variety devices. Revenue largely driven the sale minutes, subscriptions, and advertising. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. Revenue largely driven the number information workers licensed. Competition Our server operating system products face competition from wide variety server operating systems and applications offered companies with range market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions the Unix operating system preinstalled PART Item server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute Linux operating system development. The competitive position Linux has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many commercial and non-commercial software developers. number companies, such Red Hat, supply versions Linux. compete provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and -business servers. IBM and Oracle lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that compete with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our web application platform software competes with open source software such Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. middleware, compete against Java middleware such Geronimo, Wildfly, and Spring Framework. Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such BMC, Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby Rails, among others. Our embedded systems compete highly fragmented environment which key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. believe our server products provide customers with advantages performance, total costs ownership, and productivity delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Competitors Windows Commercial are the same those discussed above for Windows the & Licensing segment. Office Commercial revenue growth depends our ability add value the core product set and continue expand our product offerings other areas such content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Competitors Office Commercial includes software application vendors such Adobe Systems, Apple, Cisco Systems, Google, IBM, Oracle, SAP, and numerous web-based competitors well local application developers Asia and Europe. Cisco Systems using its position enterprise communications equipment grow its unified communications business. Google provides hosted messaging and productivity suite. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves alternatives our products. believe our products compete effectively based our strategy providing powerful, flexible, secure, easy use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have and are available device via the cloud. Skype competes with variety instant messaging, voice, and video communication providers, ranging from start-ups established enterprises. Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such Oracle and SAP the market for large organizations and divisions global enterprises. the market focused providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such Infor, The Sage Group, and NetSuite. Salesforce com\x92 cloud CRM offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM -premises offerings. Commercial Other The principal products and services provided the Commercial Other segment are: Enterprise Services, including Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services; Commercial Cloud, comprising Office Commercial, other Microsoft Office online offerings, Dynamics CRM Online, and Microsoft Azure. PART Item Enterprise Services, including Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services assist customers developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions and provide training and certification developers and information technology professionals various Microsoft products. Office Commercial online services offering that includes Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync, and available across variety devices and platforms. Dynamics CRM Online designed provide customer relationship management and supply chain management for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions global enterprises. Revenue largely driven the number information workers licensed. Microsoft Azure scalable operating system with computing, storage, database, and management, along with comprehensive cloud solutions, from which customers can build, deploy, and manage enterprise workloads and web applications. These services also include platform that helps developers build and connect applications and services the cloud. Our goal enable customers devote more resources development and use applications that benefit their businesses, rather than managing -premises hardware and software. Competition The Enterprise Services business competes with wide range companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused specific technologies. Competitors Office Commercial are the same those discussed above for Office Commercial. Microsoft Dynamics CRM\x92 online offerings primarily compete with Salesforce com\x92 -demand CRM offerings. Microsoft Azure faces diverse competition from companies such Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, Salesforce com, VMware, and other open source offerings. OPERATIONS have operations centers that support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. addition the operations centers, also operate data centers throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia regions. serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, localize many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our Xbox consoles and games, Surface devices, and Microsoft accessories are manufactured third party contract manufacturers. generally have the ability use other manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable unable meet our requirements. With the acquisition NDS, now operate manufacturing facilities for the production and customization phones Brazil, China, Hungary, Mexico, and Vietnam. All our devices may include key components that are available from only one limited sources. Disruption component supply from these suppliers could potentially lead disruption production certain devices. PART Item RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. These amounts represented % revenue each those years. plan continue make significant investments broad range research and development efforts. Product and Service Development and Intellectual Property develop most our products and services internally through four primary engineering groups. \x95 Applications and Services Engineering Group , focuses broad applications and services core technologies productivity, communication, search, and other information categories. \x95 Cloud and Enterprise Engineering Group , focuses development Microsoft\x92 back-end technologies like datacenter, database, and our specific technologies for enterprise scenarios and development tools. This group also engineers datacenter development, construction, and operation. \x95 Devices Engineering Group , focuses all hardware development and supply chain, including Xbox consoles, Surface devices, Lumia Smartphones, other non-Lumia phones, Perceptive Pixel products, and accessories. \x95 Operating Systems Engineering Group , focuses Microsoft\x92 operating systems for consoles, mobile devices, PCs, and back-end systems. Studios and Universal Store, the core cloud services for marketplaces, membership, and commerce platform, are also this group. Internal development allows maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. strive obtain information early possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, also create product documentation internally. protect our intellectual property investments variety ways. work actively the . and internationally ensure the enforcement copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. are leader among technology companies pursuing patents and currently have portfolio over , . and international patents issued and over , pending. While employ much our internally developed intellectual property exclusively Microsoft products and services, also engage outbound and inbound licensing specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees\x92 Microsoft\x92 products. From time time, enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups patents. also purchase license technology that incorporate into our products services. times, make select intellectual property broadly available low cost achieve strategic objective, such promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, attracting and enabling our external development community. conjunction with the NDS acquisition, received initial -year non-exclusive license certain Nokia patents. also agreed license Nokia\x92 mapping services and granted Nokia reciprocal rights use our patents for their mapping and location services. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects our products and business methods, believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent any single license other agreement with third party relating the development our products. Investing the Future Microsoft\x92 success based our ability create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new geographic and product markets, and drive broad adoption our products and services. invest range emerging technology trends and PART Item breakthroughs that believe offer significant opportunities deliver value our customers and growth for the company. maintain our long-term commitment research and development across wide spectrum technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration, information access and organization, entertainment, business and -commerce, advertising, and devices. While our main research and development facilities are located Redmond, Washington, also operate research and development facilities other parts the . and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, India, Ireland, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. This global approach helps remain competitive local markets and enables continue attract top talent from across the world. generally fund research the corporate level ensure that are looking beyond immediate product considerations opportunities further the future. also fund research and development activities the business segment level. Much our business segment level research and development coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the company. addition our main research and development operations, also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research one the world\x92 largest computer science research organizations, and works close collaboration with top universities around the world advance the state- -the-art computer science, providing unique perspective future technology trends and contributing our product and service innovation. Based our assessment key technology trends and our broad focus long-term research and development, see significant opportunities drive future growth productivity, platforms, cloud computing, search, communications, and smart connected devices. DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEMs; distributors and resellers; online; and Microsoft retail stores. OEMs distribute software through OEMs that pre-install our software new PCs, tablets, servers, smartphones, and other intelligent devices that they sell end customers. The largest component the OEM business the Windows operating system pre-installed computing devices. OEMs also sell hardware pre-installed with other Microsoft products, including server and embedded operating systems and applications such our Microsoft Office suite. addition these products, also market our services through OEMs and service bundles such Windows with Bing Windows with Office subscription. There are two broad categories OEMs. The largest OEMs, many which operate globally, are referred \x93Direct OEMs,\x94 our relationship with them managed through direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. have distribution agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu, HTC, Hewlett-Packard, , Lenovo, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category OEMs consists lower-volume manufacturers (also called \x93system builders\x94), which source their Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through direct agreement relationship with Microsoft. Distributors and Resellers Many organizations that license our products and services through enterprise agreements transact directly with , with sales support from solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and developers that advise organizations licensing our products and services (\x93Enterprise Agreement Direct Advisors\x94, \x93EDAs\x94). Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through license solutions partners (\x93LSPs\x94), distributors, value-added resellers (\x93VARs\x94), OEMs, system builder channels, and retailers. Although each type PART Item reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily VARs, and VARs typically reach small-sized and medium-sized organizations. EDAs typically are also authorized LSPs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs, such the Select Plus and Open licensing programs discussed under \x93Licensing Options\x94 below. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are also licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets, such Wal-Mart, Dixons, and Microsoft retail stores. distribute our hardware products, including Surface, Xbox, phones, and accessories, through third-party retailers and Microsoft retail stores. Our phones are also distributed through global wireless communications carriers. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support. Online Although -premises software will continue important part our business, increasingly are delivering additional value customers through cloud-based services. provide online content and services consumers through Bing, MSN portals and channels, Office , Windows Phone Store, Xbox Live, Outlook com, Skype, and Windows Store. also provide commercial cloud-based services such Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Azure, and Office consisting online versions Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and Yammer. Other services delivered online include our online advertising platform with offerings for advertisers and publishers, well Microsoft Developer Network subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. increasingly deliver online services, sell many these cloud-based services through our enterprise agreements and have also enabled new sales programs reach small and medium-sized businesses. These new programs include direct sales, direct sales supported large network partner advisors, and resell services through operator channels, such telephone, cell, and cable providers. also sell our products through our Microsoft retail stores and online marketplaces. LICENSING OPTIONS license software organizations under agreements that allow the customer acquire multiple licenses products and services. Our agreements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products and services are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate licenses through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing agreements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they include those discussed below. Customer Licensing Programs Open Licensing Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations, Open Programs allows customers acquire perpetual subscription licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (two three years depending the Open Programs used). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software products over the contract period called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Open Programs has several variations fit customers\x92 diverse way purchasing. Under the Open Program, customers can acquire licenses only licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Office also available for purchase through the Open Program. PART Item Select Plus Licensing Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations, the Select Plus Program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, software assurance over specified time period (generally three years less). Similar Open Programs, the Select Plus Program allows customers acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, renew software assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. subset online services are also available for purchase through the Select Plus Program, and subscriptions are generally structured with terms between one and three years. Enterprise Agreement Licensing Designed primarily for medium- and large-sized organizations that want acquire licenses Online Services and software products, along with software assurance, for all substantial parts their enterprise. Enterprises can elect acquire perpetual licenses , under the Enterprise Subscription Program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for specified time period (generally three years). Online Services are also available for purchase through the enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms. Customer Licensing Programs \x97 Online Services Only Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement designed enable small and medium-sized businesses easily purchase Microsoft Online Services (excluding Azure). The program allows customers acquire monthly annual subscriptions for cloud-based services. Microsoft Azure Agreement designed enable small and medium-sized businesses purchase Microsoft Azure Subscription plans \x93pay- -you- \x94 basis. Partner Programs The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement program targeted service providers and Independent Software Vendors allowing these partners provide software services and hosted applications their end customers. Agreements are generally structured with three-year term, and partners are billed monthly based upon consumption. Microsoft Online Services Reseller Agreement program enabling partners package Microsoft Online Services with the partners\x92 services. Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program program that enables partners use Microsoft software their own software programs. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs. sales individual customer accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. PART Item EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers July , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company Satya Nadella Chief Executive Officer Lisa . Brummel Executive Vice President, Human Resources Christopher . Capossela Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer Amy . Hood Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Bradford . Smith Executive Vice President, General Counsel; Secretary . Kevin Turner Chief Operating Officer . Nadella was appointed Chief Executive Officer February . served Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise since July . From , . Nadella served President, Server and Tools. From , was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From , was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising. Since joining Microsoft , . Nadella\x92 roles have also included Vice President Microsoft Business Division. . Brummel was appointed Executive Vice President, Human Resources July , after serving Chief People Officer since and Senior Vice President, Human Resources beginning . Prior that she had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since May . From , she had been Corporate Vice President the Home and Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft , . Brummel has held number management positions Microsoft, including General Manager Consumer Productivity Business, Product Unit Manager the Kids Business, and Product Unit Manager Desktop and Decision Reference Products. . Capossela was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer March . Prior that served the worldwide leader the Consumer Channels Group, responsible for sales and marketing activities with OEMs, operators, and retail partners. his more than years Microsoft, . Capossela has held variety marketing leadership roles the Microsoft Office Division. was responsible for marketing productivity solutions including Microsoft Office, Office , SharePoint, Exchange, Lync, Project, and Visio. . Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer July , subsequent her appointment Chief Financial Officer May . Beginning , . Hood was Chief Financial Officer the Microsoft Business Division. From through , . Hood was General Manager, Microsoft Business Division Strategy. Since joining Microsoft , . Hood has also held finance-related positions the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization. . Smith was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary . Prior that served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. . Smith joined Microsoft . . Turner was appointed Chief Operating Officer September . Before joining Microsoft, was Executive Vice President Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer the Sam\x92 Club division. From , served Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Wal-Mart\x92 Information Systems Division. From , served its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer the Information Systems Division. . Turner also serves the Board Directors Nordstrom, Inc. PART Item , EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the . and , internationally, including approximately , employees transferred part the NDS acquisition April . the total employed people, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. July , announced restructuring plan which will eliminate , positions fiscal year , including , professional and factory positions related the acquisition NDS. result the NDS acquisition, have certain employees that are subject collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. our Investor Relations website, www microsoft com investor, make available free charge variety information for investors. Our goal maintain the Investor Relations website portal through which investors can easily find navigate pertinent information about , including: \x95 our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file that material with furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94); \x95 information our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators; \x95 announcements investor conferences, speeches, and events which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives these events are also available; \x95 press releases quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news; \x95 corporate governance information including our articles incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes conduct and ethics, global corporate citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies; \x95 other news and announcements that may post from time time that investors might find useful interesting; and \x95 opportunities sign for email alerts and RSS feeds have information pushed real time. The information found our website not part this any other report file with, furnish , the SEC. addition these channels, use social media communicate the public. possible that the information post social media could deemed material investors. encourage investors, the media, and others interested Microsoft review the information post the social media channels listed our Investor Relations website. ', 'item 1a. ': 'RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results operations, cash flows, and the trading price our common stock. face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead lower revenue operating margins. Competition the technology sector Our competitors range size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them more effective deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers entry our businesses are low and software products can PART Item distributed broadly and quickly relatively low cost. Many the areas which compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions new products and services. Our ability remain competitive depends our success making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal businesses and consumers. Competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices important element our business model has been create platform-based ecosystems which many participants can build diverse solutions. well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale the marketplace necessary achieve and maintain attractive margins. The strategic importance developing and maintaining vibrant ecosystem increased with the launch the Windows operating system, Surface, Windows Phone, Xbox One, and associated cloud-based services. face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. \x95 competing vertically-integrated model, which single firm controls the software and hardware elements product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform. also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. Competing with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost revenue and reduce our operating margins. \x95 derive substantial revenue from licenses Windows operating systems personal computers. face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete multiple bases including price and the perceived utility the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning these devices perform functions that the past were performed personal computers. Even many users view these devices complementary personal computer, the prevalence these devices may make more difficult attract application developers our platforms. Competing operating systems licensed low cost may decrease operating system margins. addition, Surface competes with products made our OEM partners, which may affect their commitment our platform. \x95 The success the Windows phone platform important element our goal enhance personal productivity mobile-first and cloud-first world. The marketplace among mobile phone platforms highly competitive. may face issues selecting, engaging securing support from operators and retailers for Windows phones due , for instance, inadequate sales training incentives, insufficient marketing support for the Windows Phone platform. \x95 Competing platforms have application marketplaces (sometimes referred \x93stores\x94) with scale and significant installed bases mobile devices. The variety and utility applications available platform important device purchasing decisions. Users incur costs move data and buy new applications when switching platforms. compete, must successfully enlist developers write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. Efforts compete with these application marketplaces may increase our cost revenue and lower our operating margins. Business model competition Companies compete with based growing variety business models. \x95 Even transition mobile-first and cloud-first strategy, the license-based proprietary software model generates most our software revenue. bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many our competitors also develop and sell software businesses and consumers under this model. PART Item \x95 Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue funds development products and services these competitors provide users little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. \x95 Some companies compete with using open source business model modifying and then distributing open source software nominal cost end-users and earning revenue advertising complementary services and products. These firms not bear the full costs research and development for the software. Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality our products. The competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. This may lead lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Our increasing focus services presents execution and competitive risks. growing part our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum computing devices. July , our leadership announced its strategic vision compete and grow productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services the cloud and sometimes the user\x92 choice which suite cloud-based services use. are devoting significant resources develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue evolve with this changing environment. are embracing cultural and organizational changes drive accountability and eliminate obstacles innovation. Besides software development costs, are incurring costs build and maintain infrastructure support cloud computing services. These costs will reduce the operating margins have previously achieved. Whether succeed cloud-based services depends our execution several areas, including: \x95 continuing bring market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; \x95 maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance our cloud-based services the growing array computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, and television-related devices, including gaming consoles; \x95 continuing enhance the attractiveness our cloud platforms third-party developers; \x95 ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations our customers and maintain the security their data; and \x95 making our suite cloud-based services platform agnostic, available wide range devices and ecosystems, including those our competitors. uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users generate the revenue required succeed. are not effective executing organizational changes increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, fail generate sufficient usage our new products and services, may not grow revenues line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store, the Microsoft Azure Services platform, Office , other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox entertainment platform. also invest the development and acquisition variety hardware for productivity, communication and entertainment including PCs, tablets, phones, and gaming devices. Investments new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. customers not perceive our latest offerings providing significant new functionality other value, they may reduce their purchases new software and hardware products upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and PART Item distribution channel investments for several years, all. New products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not high the margins have experienced historically. Developing new technologies complex and time-consuming. can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new releases significant problems creating new products services could adversely affect our revenue. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that get satisfactory return our investment, that have difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, that the transaction distracts management from our other businesses. The success these transactions will depend part our ability leverage them enhance our existing products and services develop compelling new ones. may take longer than expected realize the full benefits from these transactions, such increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, increased market share, the benefits may ultimately smaller than expected. These events could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. April , acquired from Nokia substantially all its NDS business accelerate our growth phones and support the entire Windows ecosystem. may not realize all the anticipated financial and other benefits from this transaction including operating efficiencies and cost savings. may not successful developing vibrant and competitive ecosystem for Windows-based phones that combines differentiated hardware, software, services, and third-party applications. may not achieve mobile phone market share targets. may see lower than expected growth rates for the phone markets. The mix premium and lower-cost devices sell may put downward pressure prices margins. may not effective executing the restructuring announced July otherwise integrating the NDS business with Microsoft\x92 ongoing operations, including matching manufacturing capacity demand. Existing Microsoft smart device original equipment manufacturers may respond negatively the changes our business the new competitive environment. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause impairment goodwill intangibles. review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. test goodwill for impairment least annually. Factors that may change circumstances, indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable, include decline our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates industry segments which participate. may required record significant charge our consolidated financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined, negatively affecting our results operations. For example, the fourth quarter fiscal year , recorded $ billion charge for the impairment goodwill our previous Online Services Division business (Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure). The valuation acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, resulting from the acquisition NDS, reflective the enterprise value based the long-term financial forecast for the business. this highly competitive and volatile market, may not realize our forecasts. result, may required record significant charge earnings our consolidated financial statements due impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets. may not able adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use our software and other intellectual property difficult. While piracy adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the . more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Our revenue these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, educate consumers about the PART Item benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. Reductions the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time, others claim infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow because constant technological change the markets which compete, the extensive patent coverage existing technologies, the rapid rate issuance new patents, and our offering first-party devices, such Surface and Lumia phones. resolve these claims may enter into royalty and licensing agreements terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling redesign affected products services, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins decline. Besides money damages, some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products services that have infringing technologies. some countries, such Germany, injunction can issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity the underlying patents. have paid significant amounts settle claims related the use technology and intellectual property rights and procure intellectual property rights part our strategy manage this risk, and may continue . may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, critical our business. Although license portions our application and operating system source code several licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. significant portion our source code leaks, might lose future trade secret protection for that source code. may become easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code also could increase the security risks described the next paragraph. Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, harm our competitive position. Security Microsoft\x92 information technology Threats information technology (\x93 \x94) security can take variety forms. Individual and groups hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations, may take steps that pose threats our customers and our . They may develop and deploy malicious software attack our products and services and gain access our networks and datacenters, act coordinated manner launch distributed denial service other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty detecting and successfully defending against them. Cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those our partners and customers. Breaches our network data security could disrupt the security our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability provide services our customers and protect the privacy their data, result product development delays, compromise confidential technical business information harming our competitive position, result theft misuse our intellectual property other assets, require allocate more resources improved technologies, otherwise adversely affect our business. addition, our internal environment continues evolve. Often are early adopters new devices and technologies. embrace new ways sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed these changes new threats emerge. Security our product, services, devices and customers\x92 data Security threats are particular challenge companies like whose business technology products and services. Threats our own infrastructure can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely the security our infrastructure ensure the reliability our services and the protection their data. Hackers PART Item tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many ours, and expect that continue. The security our products and services important our customers\x92 purchasing decisions. defend against security threats, both our internal systems and those our customers, must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities, develop mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity our network, products and services, and provide customers security tools such firewalls and anti-virus software. The cost these steps could reduce our operating margins. fail these things well, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products and services could harm our reputation and lead customers reduce delay future purchases products subscriptions services, use competing products services. Customers may also spend more protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption additional products services. Customers may fail update their systems, continue run software operating systems longer support, may fail timely install security patches. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. Actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. Legislative regulatory action these areas may increase the costs develop, implement secure our products and services. Disclosure personal data could cause liability and harm our reputation. continue grow the number and scale our cloud-based offerings, store and process increasingly large amounts personally identifiable information our customers. The continued occurrence high-profile data breaches provides evidence external environment increasingly hostile information security. Despite our efforts improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, possible our security controls over personal data, our training employees and vendors data security, and other practices follow may not prevent the improper disclosure customer data our vendors store and manage. Improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead legal exposure customers, subject liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting increased costs loss revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers store and process personal data -premises , increasingly, cloud-based environment host. Like all providers communications services, government authorities can sometimes require produce customer data response valid legal orders. the . and elsewhere, advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations government authority compel disclosure. Despite our efforts protect customer data, perceptions that the privacy personal information not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales our products services, and could limit adoption our cloud-based solutions consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures may take address customer concerns, constraints our flexibility determine where and how operate datacenters response customer expectations governmental rules actions, may cause higher operating expenses. may have outages, data losses, and disruptions our online services fail maintain adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic, growth services and the complexity our products and services demand more computing power. spend substantial amounts build, purchase lease datacenters and equipment and upgrade our technology and network infrastructure handle more traffic our websites and our datacenters. These demands continue increase introduce new products and services and support the growth existing services such Bing, Exchange Online, Office , SharePoint Online, OneDrive, Skype, Xbox Live, Microsoft Azure, Outlook com, Microsoft Office Web Apps, Windows Stores and Microsoft Account services. are rapidly growing our business providing platform and back-end hosting for services provided third-parties their end users. Maintaining, securing and expanding this infrastructure expensive and complex. Inefficiencies operational failures, including temporary permanent loss customer data, could diminish the quality our products, services, and user experience resulting contractual liability, claims customers and other third parties, damage our reputation and loss current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each which may harm our operating results and financial condition. PART Item Government litigation and regulatory activity relating competition rules may limit how design and market our products. leading global software and device maker, are closely scrutinized government agencies under . and foreign competition laws. increasing number governments are regulating competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny potentially large markets such China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors consumers assert claims anti-competitive conduct. . federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue scrutinize our business. The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design high-volume Microsoft products and the terms which make certain technologies used these products, such file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available other companies. , the Commission ordered create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies and provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols their own products. , the Commission accepted set commitments offered Microsoft address the Commission\x92 concerns relating competition web browsing software, including undertaking address Commission concerns relating interoperability. These obligations may limit our ability innovate Windows other products the future, diminish the developer appeal the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability licenses related protocols and file formats may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality our products, which could hamper sales our products. Our portfolio first-party devices continues grow; the same time our OEM partners offer large variety devices our platforms. result, increasingly both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating risk that fail compliance with competition rules. Regulatory scrutiny this area may increase. Certain foreign governments, particularly China and other countries Asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure royalties for our intellectual property. Because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable. Government regulatory actions and court decisions such these may hinder our ability provide the benefits our software consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenue that come from them. New competition law actions could initiated. The outcome such actions, steps taken avoid them, could adversely affect variety ways, including: \x95 may have choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies avoid fines designing and developing alternative versions those products comply with government rulings, which may entail delay product release and removing functionality that customers want which developers rely. \x95 may required make available licenses our proprietary technologies terms that not reflect their fair market value not protect our associated intellectual property. \x95 The rulings described above may precedent other competition law proceedings. \x95 are subject variety ongoing commitments because court administrative orders, consent decrees other voluntary actions have taken. fail comply with these commitments may incur litigation costs and subject substantial fines other remedial actions. Our international operations subject potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (\x93Anti-Corruption Laws\x94) prohibit corrupt payments our employees, vendors, agents. From time time, receive inquiries from authorities the . and elsewhere about our business activities outside the . and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While devote substantial resources our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed reduce the risk corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, agents may violate our policies. Our failure comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against , our officers our employees, prohibitions the conduct our business, and damage our reputation. Operations outside the . may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. may subject legal liability and reputational damage sell goods services violation . trade sanctions countries such Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, and Syria. PART Item Other regulatory areas that may apply our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. For example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such Skype are covered laws regulating telecommunications services. Applying these laws and regulations our business often unclear, subject change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Additionally, these laws and governments\x92 approach their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing evolve. Some governments are expressing increasing concern about government surveillance practices around the world and this may lead increased regulation requiring local hosting obligations the use domestic hosting providers. Compliance with these types regulation may involve significant costs require changes products business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result the imposition penalties orders stop the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, cannot retain key employees, including key employees the NDS business acquired April , our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Effective succession planning also important our long-term success. Failure ensure effective transfer knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all these claims may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. material adverse impact our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes the . and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. regularly are under audit tax authorities. Economic and political pressures increase tax revenues various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results audit litigation could have material effect our consolidated financial statements the period periods for which that determination made. earn significant amount our operating income from outside the ., and any repatriation funds currently held foreign jurisdictions the . may result higher effective tax rates for the company. addition, there have been proposals from Congress change . tax laws that would significantly impact how . multinational corporations are taxed foreign earnings. Although cannot predict whether what form any proposed legislation may pass, enacted could have material adverse impact our tax expense and cash flows. Our hardware and software products may experience quality supply problems. Our vertically-integrated hardware products such Xbox consoles, Surface devices, Lumia Smartphones, and other devices design and market are highly complex and can have defects design, manufacture, associated software. could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm fail detect address such issues through design, testing, warranty repairs. get some device components from sole suppliers. Our competitors use some the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available . component from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable, whether because supplier capacity constraint industry shortages, may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting reduced sales. Component shortages, excess obsolete inventory, price reductions resulting inventory adjustments may increase our cost revenue. Xbox consoles and Surface devices and Lumia phones are assembled Asia and other geographies that may subject disruptions the supply chain, resulting shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products may offer. PART Item Our software products also may experience quality reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software products develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Any defects not detect and fix pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage our reputation, repair remediation costs, delays the release new products versions, legal liability. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure liability, there assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. Our global business exposes operational and economic risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. The global nature our business creates operational and economic risks. Emerging markets are significant focus our international growth strategy. The developing nature these markets presents several risks, including deterioration social, political, labor, economic conditions country region, and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. Although hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. Competitive regulatory pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the . and other countries. Catastrophic events geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. disruption failure our systems operations because major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales, providing services, performing other critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business systems could harm our ability conduct normal business operations. Providing our customers with more services and solutions the cloud puts premium the resilience our systems and strength our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact prolonged service outages our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either which may adversely affect our revenue. The long-term effects climate change the global economy the industry particular are unclear. Environmental regulations changes the supply, demand available sources energy may affect the availability cost goods and services, including natural resources, necessary run our business. Changes weather where operate may increase the costs powering and cooling computer hardware use develop software and provide cloud-based services. Adverse economic market conditions may harm our business. Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, other changes economic conditions, may cause lower spending and adversely affect our revenue. demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, consumer business spending for those products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. Substantial revenue comes from our . government contracts. extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending our products and services and adversely affect our revenues. Our product distribution system also relies extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been significant means distribution. The impact economic conditions our partners, such the bankruptcy major distributor, OEM, retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability our customers pay for products and services they have purchased. result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs accounts receivable may increase. maintain investment portfolio various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may exacerbated unusual events that affect global financial markets. significant part our investment portfolio comprises . government securities. global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, there downgrade the . government credit rating due actual threatened default government debt, our investment portfolio may adversely affected and could determine that more our investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. PART Item , , , ', 'item 1b. ': 'UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS have received written comments regarding our periodic current reports from the staff the SEC that were issued days more preceding the end our fiscal year that remain unresolved. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space situated approximately acres land own our corporate campus Redmond, Washington and approximately five million square feet space lease. own approximately three million additional square feet office and data center space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately five million square feet office and data center space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately five million square feet that owned and approximately twelve million square feet that leased. International facilities that own include: our development center Hyderabad, India; our European operations center Dublin, Ireland; research and development campus Beijing, China; and our facilities Salo, Finland and Reading, . The largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan; Unterschleissheim, Germany; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; Espoo, Tampere, and Oulu, Finland, Bangalore, India; Reading, ; Vedbaek, Denmark; and Mississauga, Canada. addition the above locations, have disk duplication and digital distribution facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific operations center and regional headquarters, and various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described the \x93Research and Development\x94 section Item this Form - . Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available accommodate expansion needs. have development agreement with the City Redmond under which may currently develop approximately million square feet additional facilities our corporate campus Redmond, Washington. operate manufacturing facilities Brazil, China, Hungary, Mexico, and Vietnam for the production phones. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART Item , PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS Our common stock traded the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. July , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended September December March June Fiscal Year Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ Fiscal Year High $ $ $ $ $ Low $ $ $ $ $ DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) for information regarding dividends and share repurchases quarter. Following are our monthly stock repurchases for the fourth quarter fiscal year , all which were made part publicly announced plans programs: Period Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares that May Yet Purchased under the Plans Programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , $ , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , $ $ , , , , , The repurchases were made using cash resources and occurred the open market. ', 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended June , ( ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , Net income $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , ( ) $ , $ , Diluted earnings per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , PART Item , ( ) April , , acquired substantially all Nokia\x92 Devices and Services business (\x93NDS\x94). NDS has been included our consolidated results operations starting the acquisition date. ( ) Includes tax provision adjustment recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year related adjustments prior years\x92 liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing which decreased net income $ million and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes charge related fine imposed the European Commission March which decreased operating income and net income $ million (\x80 million) and diluted earnings per share $ . Also includes charge for Surface inventory adjustments recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , which decreased operating income $ million, net income $ million, and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes goodwill impairment charge related our previous Online Services Division business segment (related Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure) which decreased operating income and net income $ billion and diluted earnings per share $ . ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis (\x93 & \x94) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes Financial Statements. OVERVIEW Microsoft technology leader focused being the productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. strive reinvent productivity empower people and organizations more and achieve more. create technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate across wide range computing devices. generate revenue developing, licensing, and supporting wide range software products, offering array services, including cloud-based services consumers and businesses, designing, manufacturing, and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and delivering relevant online advertising global audience. Our most significant expenses are related compensating employees, designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services, datacenter costs support our cloud-based services, and income taxes. Industry Trends Our industry dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes both technologies and business models. Each industry shift opportunity conceive new products, new technologies, new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. Microsoft, push the boundaries what possible through broad range research and development activities that seek identify and address the changing demands customers, industry trends, and competitive forces. Key Opportunities and Investments see significant opportunities for growth investing research and development resources the following areas: \x95 Digital work and life experiences \x95 Our cloud operating system \x95 Our devices operating system and hardware PART Item With investments these areas, work fulfill the evolving needs our customers mobile-first and cloud-first world. view mobility broadly \x96 not just devices, but experiences. Today, people move just quickly into new contexts new locations. Mobility goes beyond devices users carry with them they move from place place, encompass the rich collection data, applications, and services that accompany them they move from setting setting their lives. Many our customers are \x93dual users,\x94 employing technology for work school and also deeply their personal lives. Digital work and life experiences believe can significantly enhance the digital lives our customers using our broad portfolio communication, productivity, and information services. work deliver digital work and life experiences that are reinvented for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. Productivity will the first and foremost objective, enable people meet and collaborate more easily, and effectively express ideas new ways. will design applications dual use with the intelligence partition data between work and life while respecting each person\x92 privacy choices. The foundation for these efforts will rest advancing our leading productivity, collaboration, and business process tools including Skype, OneDrive, OneNote, Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Bing, and Dynamics. see opportunity combining these services new ways that are more contextual and personal, while ensuring people, rather than their devices, remain the center the digital experience. will offer our services across ecosystems and devices outside our own. people move from device device, will their content and the richness their services. will engineer applications users can find, try, and buy them friction-free ways. Cloud operating system Today, businesses face important opportunities and challenges. Enterprises are asked deploy technology that advances business strategy. They decide what solutions will make employees more productive, collaborative, and satisfied, connect with customers new and compelling ways. They work unlock business insights from world data. They rely our technology manage employee corporate identity, and manage and secure corporate information accessed and stored across growing number devices. achieve these objectives increasingly businesses look leverage the benefits the cloud. Helping businesses move the cloud one our largest opportunities, and believe work from position strength. The shift the cloud driven three important economies scale: larger datacenters can deploy computational resources significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; larger datacenters can coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns improving the utilization computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy lowers application maintenance labor costs for large public clouds. The cloud creates the opportunity for businesses focus innovation while leaving non-differentiating activities reliable and cost-effective providers. With Azure, are one very few cloud vendors that run scale that meets the needs businesses all sizes and complexities. believe the combination Azure and Windows Server makes the only company with public, private, and hybrid cloud platform that can power modern business. are working enhance the return investment enabling enterprises combine their existing datacenters and our public cloud into single cohesive infrastructure. Businesses can deploy applications their own datacenter, partner\x92 datacenter, our datacenters with common security, management, and administration across all environments, with the flexibility and scale they desire. Our cloud will also enable richer employee experiences. enable organizations securely adopt software- - -service applications (both our own and third-party) and integrate them with their existing security and management infrastructure. will continue innovate with higher level services including identity and directory services, rich data storage and analytics services, machine learning services, media services, web, and mobile backend services, and developer productivity services. foster rich developer ecosystem, our digital work PART Item and life experiences will also extensible, enabling customers and partners further customize and enhance our solutions, achieving even more value. Our strategy requires continuing investment datacenters and other infrastructure support our devices and services, and will bring continued competition with Google, Amazon, and other well-established and emerging competitors. Device operating system and hardware With our Windows device operating system and first-party hardware, strive set the standard for productivity experiences. aim deliver the richest and most consistent user experience for digital work and life scenarios screens all sizes \x96 from phones, tablets, and laptops TVs and large, multi-touch displays. are investing make Windows the most secure, manageable, and capable operating system for the needs modern workforce. are working create broad developer opportunity enabling universal Windows applications run across all device targets. are developing new input output methods like speech, pen, and gesture power more personal computing experiences. work with ecosystem partners deliver broad spectrum Windows devices. also build first-party hardware set the standard for productivity experiences and stimulate more demand for the entire Windows ecosystem, with Surface, and with the acquisition substantially all Nokia Corporation\x92 (\x93Nokia\x94) Devices and Services business (\x93NDS\x94) April , , phones. consumer services and hardware advance, expect they will continue better complement one another, connecting the devices people use daily unique communications, productivity, and entertainment services from Microsoft and our partners and developers. anticipate many new mobile device categories and anticipate experiences emerge that span variety devices all screen sizes. will invest the forefront this innovation focusing dual users and their needs across work and life. With the acquisition NDS, expect our effective tax rate increase our business mix changes. Our future opportunity There are several distinct areas technology that aim drive forward. Our goal lead the industry these areas over the long term, which expect will translate sustained growth. are investing significant resources : \x95 Delivering new high-value digital work and digital life experiences improve how people learn, work, play, and interact with one another. \x95 Establishing our Windows platform across the , tablet, phone, server, other devices, and the cloud drive thriving ecosystem developers, unify the cross-device user experience, and increase agility when bringing new advances market. \x95 Building and running cloud-based services ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals. \x95 Developing new devices that have increasingly natural ways use them, including touch, gesture, and speech. \x95 Applying machine learning make technology more intuitive and able act our behalf, instead our command. believe the breadth our products and services portfolio, our large, global partner and customer base, our growing ecosystem, and our ongoing investment innovation position leader these areas. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The market for software, devices, and cloud-based services dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services the cloud and some cases the user\x92 choice which suite cloud-based services use. must continue evolve and adapt over extended time pace with this changing environment. support our strategy PART Item reinventing productivity empower every person and every organization more and achieve more, announced restructuring plan July . Through this restructuring, strive increase agility, streamline engineering processes, move faster and more efficiently, and simplify our organization. Even achieve these goals, the investments are making devices and infrastructure will increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. prioritize our investments among the highest long-term growth opportunities. These investments require significant resources and are multi-year nature. The products and services bring market may developed internally, part partnership alliance, through acquisition. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. hire mix university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals globally offering exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale resources, the ability grow one\x92 career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices correlated global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. See discussion these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part , Item this Form - ). Unearned Revenue Quarterly and annual revenue may impacted the deferral revenue. See the discussions below regarding: \x95 revenue deferred certain devices bundled with other products and services (\x93Bundled Offerings\x94); and \x95 revenue deferred sales Windows with option upgrade Windows Pro discounted price (the \x93Windows Upgrade Offer\x94). our customers choose license cloud-based versions our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized the time the transaction being recognized over the subscription period upon consumption, applicable. Reportable Segments The segment amounts included & are presented basis consistent with our internal management reporting. Segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ) also presented this basis. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted the . (\x93 . GAAP\x94), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included Corporate and other. Operating expenses are not allocated our segments. During the first quarter fiscal year , changed our organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. result, information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes allocating resources and assessing performance changed. Therefore, have recast certain prior period amounts conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during fiscal year . Our reportable segments are described below. April , , acquired substantially all NDS for total consideration $ billion. This amount was greater than the $ billion disclosed previously, primarily due $ billion cash acquired, foreign currency movements $ million, working capital adjustments $ million, and other adjustments $ million. See Note \x96 Business Combinations the Notes Financial Statements for additional details. NDS has been included our consolidated results operations starting the acquisition date. report the financial performance the acquired business our new Phone Hardware segment. Prior the acquisition NDS, financial results associated with our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia were reflected our & Licensing segment. The contractual relationship with Nokia related those initiatives terminated conjunction with the acquisition. With the creation the new Phone Hardware segment, the & Hardware segment was renamed Computing and Gaming Hardware the fourth quarter fiscal year . PART Item Devices and Consumer (\x93 & \x94) Our & segments develop, manufacture, market, and support products and services designed entertain and connect people, increase personal productivity, help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. Our & segments are: \x95 & Licensing , comprising: Windows, including all OEM licensing (\x93Windows OEM\x94) and other non-volume licensing and academic volume licensing the Windows operating system and related software; non-volume licensing Microsoft Office, comprising the core Office product set, for consumers (\x93Office Consumer\x94); Windows Phone operating system, including related patent licensing; and certain other patent licensing revenue; \x95 Computing and Gaming Hardware , comprising: Xbox gaming and entertainment consoles and accessories, second-party and third-party video game royalties, and Xbox Live subscriptions (\x93Xbox Platform\x94); Surface devices and accessories; and Microsoft accessories; \x95 Phone Hardware, comprising: Lumia Smartphones and other non-Lumia phones, beginning with our acquisition NDS; and \x95 & Other , comprising: Resale, including Windows Store, Xbox Live transactions, and Windows Phone Store; search advertising; display advertising; Office Consumer, comprising Office Home and Office Personal; Studios, comprising first-party video games; our retail stores; and certain other consumer products and services not included the categories above. Commercial Our Commercial segments develop, market, and support software and services designed increase individual, team, and organizational productivity and efficiency, including simplifying everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. Our Commercial segments are: \x95 Commercial Licensing , comprising: server products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (\x93CALs\x94); Windows Embedded; volume licensing the Windows operating system, excluding academic (\x93Windows Commercial\x94); Microsoft Office for business, including Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and related CALs (\x93Office Commercial\x94); Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, excluding Dynamics CRM Online; and Skype; and \x95 Commercial Other , comprising: Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services; Commercial Cloud, comprising Office Commercial, other Microsoft Office online offerings, Dynamics CRM Online, and Microsoft Azure; and certain other commercial products and online services not included the categories above. SUMMARY RESULTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Gross margin $ , $ , $ , % % Operating income $ , $ , $ , % % Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ % % Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue increased $ billion %, demonstrating growth across our consumer and commercial businesses, primarily due higher revenue from server products, Xbox Platform, Commercial Cloud, and Surface. Revenue also increased due the acquisition NDS. Commercial Cloud revenue doubled, reflecting continued subscriber growth from our cloud-based offerings. PART Item Gross margin increased $ billion %, primarily due higher revenue, offset part $ billion % increase cost revenue. Cost revenue increased mainly due higher volumes Xbox consoles and Surface devices sold, and $ million higher datacenter expenses, primarily support Commercial Cloud revenue growth. Cost revenue also increased due the acquisition NDS. Operating income increased $ million %, reflecting higher gross margin, offset part increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses. Key changes operating expenses were: \x95 Research and development expenses increased $ million %, due mainly increased investment new products and services our Devices engineering group, including NDS expenses, and increased investment our Applications and Services engineering group. \x95 Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily due NDS expenses and increased investment sales resources, offset part lower advertising costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Revenue increased $ billion %, mainly due growth revenue from our Commercial segments. Revenue was also impacted the timing revenue deferrals. Operating income grew $ billion %, primarily due the $ billion goodwill impairment charge recorded during the prior year. Other key changes cost revenue and operating expenses were: \x95 Cost revenue increased $ billion %, reflecting increased product costs associated with Surface and Windows , including approximately $ million charge for Surface inventory adjustments, higher headcount-related expenses, payments made Nokia related joint strategic initiatives, royalties Xbox Live content, and retail stores expenses, offset part decreased costs associated with lower sales Xbox consoles and decreased traffic acquisition costs. \x95 Sales and marketing expenses increased $ billion %, reflecting advertising Windows and Surface. \x95 Research and development expenses increased $ million %, due mainly higher headcount-related expenses, largely related the Xbox Platform. \x95 General and administrative expenses increased $ million %, due higher legal charges, primarily due the European Commission fine \x80 million (approximately $ million) for failure comply with our agreement display \x93Browser Choice Screen\x94 Windows PCs where Internet Explorer the default browser (the \x93 fine\x94). PART Item SEGMENT RESULTS OPERATIONS Devices and Consumer ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue Licensing $ , $ , $ , ( )% ( )% Hardware: Computing and Gaming Hardware , , , % ( )% Phone Hardware , * * Total & Hardware , , , % ( )% Other , , , % % Total & revenue $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Gross Margin Licensing $ , $ , $ , % ( )% Hardware: Computing and Gaming Hardware , ( )% ( )% Phone Hardware * * Total & Hardware , ( )% ( )% Other , , , ( )% % Total & gross margin $ , $ , $ , ( )% ( )% * Not meaningful Fiscal year compared with fiscal year & revenue increased $ billion %, primarily due higher revenue from Xbox Platform, Surface, and Windows Phone. Revenue also increased $ billion due the acquisition NDS. & gross margin decreased slightly, reflecting higher cost revenue, offset part higher revenue. Cost revenue increased $ billion %, due mainly Xbox Platform and Surface. Cost revenue also increased $ billion due NDS. & Licensing & Licensing revenue decreased $ million %, due mainly lower revenue from licenses Windows and Office Consumer, well decrease royalty revenue, offset part increased Windows Phone revenue. Retail and non-OEM sales Windows declined $ million %, due mainly the launch Windows the prior year. Windows OEM revenue declined $ million %, due continued softness the consumer market, offset part % increase OEM Pro revenue. Office Consumer revenue declined $ million %, reflecting the transition customers Office Consumer well continued softness the consumer market. The declines Windows OEM and Office Consumer revenue were partially offset benefits realized from ending our support for Windows April . Windows Phone revenue increased $ million %, due mainly the recognition $ million revenue under our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia, which concluded conjunction with the acquisition NDS, well increase phone patent licensing revenue. & Licensing gross margin increased $ million %, primarily due $ million % decrease cost revenue. & Licensing cost revenue decreased, due mainly $ million % decline traffic acquisition costs. PART Item Computing and Gaming Hardware Computing and Gaming Hardware revenue increased $ billion %, primarily due higher revenue from the Xbox Platform and Surface. Xbox Platform revenue increased $ billion %, due mainly sales Xbox One, which was released November , offset part decrease sales Xbox . sold million Xbox consoles during fiscal year compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . Surface revenue increased $ billion %, due mainly higher number devices and accessories sold. Computing and Gaming Hardware gross margin decreased slightly, due $ billion % increase cost revenue, offset part higher revenue. Xbox Platform cost revenue increased $ billion %, due mainly higher volumes consoles sold and higher costs associated with Xbox One. Surface cost revenue increased $ million %, due mainly higher number devices and accessories sold, offset part charge for Surface inventory adjustments approximately $ million fiscal year . Phone Hardware Phone Hardware revenue was $ billion, reflecting sales Lumia Smartphones and other non-Lumia phones following the acquisition NDS April , . Since the acquisition, sold million Lumia Smartphones and million non-Lumia phones. Phone Hardware gross margin was $ million, reflecting revenue $ billion, offset part $ billion cost revenue, including amortization acquired intangible assets and the impact decisions rationalize our device portfolio. & Other & Other revenue increased $ million %, due mainly higher online advertising revenue and Office Consumer revenue, offset part $ million decrease first-party video games revenue, primarily due the release Halo the second quarter fiscal year . Online advertising revenue increased $ million %. Search advertising revenue increased %, due primarily increased revenue per search resulting from ongoing improvements advertising products, higher search volume, and the expiration North American revenue per search guarantee payments Yahoo! the prior year , offset part % reduction display advertising revenue. Office Consumer revenue grew $ million, primarily reflecting subscriber growth. ended fiscal year with over five million subscribers. & Other gross margin decreased $ million %, due $ million % increase cost revenue, offset part higher revenue. & Other cost revenue grew, due mainly $ million % increase online advertising cost revenue, reflecting support online infrastructure. Cost revenue also increased $ million %, due higher resale transactions costs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year & revenue decreased $ million %, reflecting lower revenue from & Licensing and Computing and Gaming Hardware, offset part increased revenue from & Other. & gross margin decreased $ billion %, primarily due higher cost revenue and lower revenue. Cost revenue increased $ billion %, primarily due Computing and Gaming Hardware. & Licensing & Licensing revenue decreased $ million %, due mainly lower revenue from licenses Consumer and Windows OEM, offset part increased Windows Phone revenue. Office Consumer revenue declined $ million %, while Windows OEM revenue declined %. These decreases resulted primarily from the impact revenue decline the x86 market, which estimate declined approximately %. Windows Phone revenue increased $ billion, including increase patent licensing revenue and sales Windows Phone licenses. PART Item May , announced that had surpassed million licenses sold for Windows . & Licensing gross margin decreased $ million %, due decreased revenue, offset part $ million % decrease cost revenue. & Licensing cost revenue decreased, due mainly lower traffic acquisition costs, offset part $ million increase expenses for payments made Nokia related joint strategic initiatives. Computing and Gaming Hardware Computing and Gaming Hardware revenue decreased $ million %, due primarily lower revenue from the Xbox Platform, offset part Surface revenue. Xbox Platform revenue decreased $ billion %, due mainly lower volumes consoles sold, offset part higher Xbox Live subscription revenue. shipped million Xbox consoles during fiscal year , compared with million Xbox consoles during fiscal year . Surface revenue was $ million. The general availability Surface and Surface Pro started October , and February , , respectively. Computing and Gaming Hardware gross margin decreased $ billion %, due $ billion % increase cost revenue and decreased revenue. Computing and Gaming Hardware cost revenue increased, primarily due $ billion product costs associated with Surface, including charge for Surface inventory adjustments approximately $ million. These costs were offset part $ million % decrease Xbox Platform cost revenue, due mainly decrease manufacturing and distribution costs associated with lower volumes Xbox consoles sold. & Other & Other revenue increased $ million %, due mainly higher advertising revenue, which increased $ million % $ billion. Search advertising revenue growth was offset part decline display advertising revenue. Search advertising revenue grew primarily due increased revenue per search, resulting from ongoing improvements products, while display advertising revenue decreased primarily due industry-wide market pressure. & Other revenue also increased $ million %, due mainly higher volumes content resold through our online platforms. & Other gross margin increased $ million %, due increased revenue offset part $ million % increase cost revenue. & Other cost revenue increased, due mainly $ million % increase costs associated with higher volumes resale transactions, primarily $ million increase royalties Xbox Live content. Increased traffic acquisition costs were offset part lower Yahoo! reimbursement costs. Commercial ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue Licensing $ , $ , $ , % % Other , , , % % Total Commercial revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Gross Margin Licensing $ , $ , $ , % % Other , % % Total Commercial gross margin $ , $ , $ , % % PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Commercial revenue increased $ billion %, due mainly growth revenue from our -premises licensing businesses and Commercial Cloud. Collectively, Office Commercial and Office Commercial revenue grew %. Collectively, our server products revenue, including Microsoft Azure, grew %. Commercial gross margin increased $ billion %, line with revenue. Commercial Licensing Commercial Licensing revenue increased $ billion %, due primarily increased revenue from our server products, well higher revenue from Windows Commercial and Office Commercial. Our server products revenue grew $ billion %, driven primarily increased sales Microsoft SQL Server. Windows Commercial revenue grew $ million %, due mainly increased renewal rates and transactional purchases driven Windows end support. Office Commercial revenue grew $ million %, and was impacted customers transitioning Office Commercial. Commercial Licensing gross margin increased $ billion %, line with revenue growth. Commercial Other Commercial Other revenue increased $ billion %, due higher Commercial Cloud revenue and Enterprise Services revenue. Commercial Cloud revenue grew $ billion %, due mainly higher revenue from Office Commercial. Enterprise Services revenue grew $ million %, due mainly growth Premier Support Services. Commercial Other gross margin increased $ million %, due higher revenue, offset part $ million % increase cost revenue. The increase cost revenue was due mainly higher datacenter expenses, reflecting support our growing Commercial Cloud. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Commercial revenue increased $ billion %, due mainly growth revenue from our -premises licensing businesses and Commercial Cloud. Commercial gross margin increased $ billion %. Commercial Licensing Commercial Licensing revenue increased $ billion %, due increased revenue from all major commercial offerings. Server products revenue increased $ billion %, driven primarily growth Microsoft SQL Server, System Center, and Windows Server. Office Commercial revenue increased $ million %, reflecting growth Office revenue from volume licensing agreements with software assurance. Windows Commercial revenue increased $ million %, reflecting continued support our platform. Skype revenue increased, due primarily including full year results fiscal year . Commercial Licensing gross margin increased $ billion %, due higher revenue, offset part $ million % increase cost revenue. Commercial Licensing cost revenue increased, due increased costs from all major commercial offerings, including $ million higher intellectual property licensing costs. Commercial Other Commercial Other revenue increased $ billion %, due higher Commercial Cloud and Enterprise Services revenue. Commercial Cloud revenue grew $ million %, due mainly higher revenue from Office Commercial. Enterprise Services revenue grew $ million %, due growth both Premier product support and consulting services. PART Item Commercial Other gross margin increased $ million %, due higher revenue, offset part $ million % increase cost revenue. The increase cost revenue was due mainly higher datacenter expenses, reflecting investment online operations infrastructure, and increased headcount-related expenses, mainly due higher Enterprise Services headcount supporting revenue growth. Corporate and Other ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Revenue $ ( ) $ $ ( ) ( )% % Gross margin $ ( ) $ $ ( ) ( )% % Corporate and Other revenue comprises certain revenue deferrals, including those related product and service upgrade offers and pre-sales new products OEMs prior general availability. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate and Other revenue decreased $ million, primarily due the timing revenue deferrals. During fiscal year , deferred net $ million revenue related Bundled Offerings. During fiscal year , recognized $ million previously deferred revenue related the Windows Upgrade Offer. The revenue was recognized upon expiration the offer. Corporate and Other gross margin decreased $ million, due mainly decreased revenue. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Corporate and Other revenue increased $ million %, primarily due the timing revenue deferrals. During fiscal year , recognized $ million revenue that had been deferred fiscal year related the Windows Upgrade Offer. The revenue was recognized upon expiration the offer. Corporate and Other gross margin increased $ million %, due mainly increased revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % 0ppt 0ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased $ million %, due mainly increased investment new products and services our Devices engineering group, including $ million NDS expenses, and increased investment our Applications and Services engineering group. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Research and development expenses increased, reflecting $ million % increase headcount-related expenses, largely related the Xbox Platform. Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus Sales and marketing $ , $ , $ , % % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt 1ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses increased $ million %, primarily due NDS expenses and increased investment sales resources, offset part lower advertising costs. NDS sales and marketing expenses were $ million during fiscal year . Average headcount, excluding NDS, grew %. Advertising costs, excluding NDS, declined $ million %, primarily due Windows and Surface costs the prior year. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Sales and marketing expenses grew, reflecting $ million increase advertising costs associated primarily with Windows and Surface, $ million higher fees paid third-party software advisors, and $ million % increase headcount-related expenses. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percentage Change Versus Percentage Change Versus General and administrative $ , $ , $ , ( )% % percent revenue % % % ( )ppt 1ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses decreased $ million %, due mainly the fine the prior year, offset part higher business taxes, higher costs for internal use software capitalized the prior year, and NDS expenses. NDS general and administrative expenses were $ million during fiscal year . Fiscal year compared with fiscal year General and administrative expenses increased, primarily due legal charges for the fine. PART Item Goodwill Impairment test goodwill for impairment annually May the reporting unit level using discounted cash flow methodology with peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost capital. impairment goodwill was identified May , May . Our goodwill impairment test May , , indicated that the carrying value our previous Online Services Division reporting unit ( Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure) exceeded its estimated fair value. Accordingly, recorded non-cash, non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge $ billion during the three months ended June , , reducing the unit\x92 goodwill from $ billion $ million. Integration and Restructuring Integration and restructuring expenses consist transaction fees and direct acquisition costs, including legal, finance, consulting, and other professional fees. Integration and restructuring expenses also include employee compensation and termination costs associated with certain reorganization activities. Integration and restructuring expenses were $ million for fiscal year , reflecting expenses associated with the acquisition and integration NDS. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains investments Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Total $ $ $ use derivative instruments : manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are primarily recognized other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded component other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94) until the securities are sold other-than-temporarily impaired, which time the amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) into other income (expense). Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income increased due higher portfolio balances. Interest expense increased due higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains investments increased primarily due higher gains sales equity securities and lower other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $ million fiscal year , compared with $ million fiscal year . Net losses derivatives increased due higher losses foreign exchange contracts, losses equity derivatives compared gains the prior period, offset part gains commodity and interest rate derivatives compared losses the prior period. For fiscal year , other reflects recognized losses from certain joint ventures, offset part recognized gain divestiture. For fiscal year , other reflects recognized gains divestitures, including the gain recognized upon the divestiture our % share the MSNBC joint venture. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Dividends and interest income decreased due lower yields our fixed-income investments, offset part higher average portfolio investment balances. Net recognized gains investments decreased primarily due lower gains sales equity and fixed-income securities and gain recognized the partial sale our Facebook holding the prior year, offset part lower other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $ million fiscal year , compared with $ million fiscal year . Net losses derivatives decreased due gains equity derivatives the current fiscal year compared with losses the prior fiscal year, and lower losses commodity and foreign exchange derivatives compared the prior fiscal year, offset part losses interest-rate derivatives the current fiscal year compared gains the prior fiscal year. For the current year, other reflects recognized gains divestitures, including the gain recognized upon the divestiture our % share the MSNBC joint venture. INCOME TAXES Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rate for fiscal years and was approximately % and %, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Our fiscal year effective rate increased % from fiscal year mainly due adjustments $ million prior years\x92 liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing that increased taxable income more highly taxed jurisdictions, well losses incurred NDS and changes the geographic mix our business. This was offset part favorable transfer pricing developments certain foreign tax jurisdictions, primarily Denmark. Changes the mix income before income taxes between the . and foreign countries also impacted our effective tax rates and resulted primarily from changes the geographic distribution and changes consumer demand for our products and services. supply our Windows operating system customers through our . regional operating center, while supply the Microsoft Office system and our server products and tools customers through our foreign regional operations centers. Windows operating system revenue decreased $ million fiscal year , while Microsoft Office system and server products and tools revenue increased $ billion and $ billion, respectively, during this same period. fiscal years and , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. fiscal years and , the foreign income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively, and are included other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily adjustments prior years\x92 liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing and adjustments related our IRS audits. While settled portion the . audit for tax years during the third quarter fiscal year , remain under audit for those years. February , the . withdrew its Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase the examination. June , , the primary unresolved issue relates transfer pricing which could have significant impact our consolidated financial statements not resolved favorably. have not received proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and not expect final resolution these issues the next months. Based the information currently available, not anticipate significant increase decrease our tax contingencies for these issues. also continue subject examination the . for tax years . are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the . Our operations certain jurisdictions remain subject examination for tax years , some which are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolutions these audits are not expected material our consolidated financial statements. PART Item Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Our effective tax rate for fiscal years and was approximately % and %, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the . federal statutory rate primarily due earnings taxed lower rates foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Our fiscal year effective rate decreased % from fiscal year mainly due nonrecurring $ billion non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge that was recorded fiscal year . The goodwill impairment charge increased our effective tax rate % fiscal year . addition, fiscal years and , recognized reduction % and %, respectively, the effective tax rate due foreign earnings taxed lower rates. The decrease our effective tax rate for fiscal year was primarily offset % increase related the fine, which not tax deductible. Changes the mix income before income taxes between the . and foreign countries also impacted our effective tax rates and resulted primarily from changes the geographic distribution and changes consumer demand for our products and services. supply our Windows operating system customers through our . regional operating center, while supply the Microsoft Office system and our server products and tools customers through our foreign regional operations centers. Windows operating system revenue increased $ million fiscal year , while Microsoft Office system and server products and tools revenue increased $ million and $ billion, respectively, during this same period. fiscal years and , our . income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. fiscal years and , the foreign income before income taxes was $ billion and $ billion, respectively, and comprised % and %, respectively, our income before income taxes. The primary driver for the increase the . income before income tax fiscal year was the goodwill impairment charge recorded during the prior year. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $ billion and $ billion June , and , respectively, and are included other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily transfer pricing, including transfer pricing developments certain foreign tax jurisdictions, primarily Denmark. While settled portion the . audit for tax years during the third quarter fiscal year , remain under audit for those years. February , the . withdrew its Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase the examination. June , , the primary unresolved issue relates transfer pricing which could have significant impact our consolidated financial statements not resolved favorably. not believe reasonably possible that the total amount unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase decrease within the next months because not believe the remaining open issues will resolved within the next months. also continue subject examination the . for tax years . are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the . Our operations certain jurisdictions remain subject examination for tax years , some which are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolutions these audits are not expected material our consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , , compared with $ billion June , . Our short-term investments are primarily facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly . dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities order diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity our fixed-income portfolio are PART Item managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related these investments insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments June , , $ billion was held our foreign subsidiaries and would subject material repatriation tax effects. The amount cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries subject other restrictions the free flow funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was $ billion. June , , approximately % the cash equivalents and short-term investments held our foreign subsidiaries were invested . government and agency securities, approximately % were invested corporate notes and bonds . companies, and approximately % were invested . mortgage-backed securities, all which are denominated . dollars. Securities lending lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $ million June , . Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the fiscal year were $ million and $ billion, respectively. Intra-year variances the amount securities loaned are mainly due fluctuations the demand for the securities. Valuation general, and where applicable, use quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities determine the fair value our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments, such exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and . government securities. quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities are not available determine fair value, then use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly indirectly. This pricing methodology applies our Level investments such corporate notes and bonds, common and preferred stock, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and certificates deposit. Level investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured fair value recurring basis using unobservable inputs are immaterial portion our portfolio. majority our investments are priced pricing vendors and are generally Level Level investments these vendors either provide quoted market price active market use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing used mainly when quoted price not available, the investment not priced our pricing vendors, when broker price more reflective fair values the market which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified Level investments because the broker prices these investments based similar assets without applying significant adjustments. addition, all our broker-priced investments have sufficient level trading volume demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review key model inputs, analysis period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flows from operations increased $ billion during the current fiscal year $ billion, due mainly increases cash received from customers. Cash used financing increased $ million $ billion, due mainly $ billion increase cash used for common stock repurchases, $ billion increase dividends paid, and $ million decrease proceeds from the issuance common stock, offset part $ billion increase PART Item proceeds from issuances debt, net repayments. Cash used investing decreased $ billion $ billion, due mainly $ billion decrease cash used for net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, offset part $ billion increase cash used for acquisition companies and purchases intangible and other assets, and $ billion increase capital expenditures for property and equipment. Fiscal year compared with fiscal year Cash flows from operations decreased $ billion during the current fiscal year $ billion, due mainly changes working capital, including increases inventory and other current assets. Cash used for financing decreased $ billion $ billion, due mainly $ billion increase proceeds from issuances debt, net repayments, offset part $ billion increase dividends paid and $ million decrease proceeds from the issuance common stock. Cash used investing decreased $ million $ billion, due mainly $ billion decrease cash used for acquisitions companies and purchases intangible and other assets, offset part $ billion increase cash used for net investment purchases, maturities, and sales, and $ billion increase cash used for additions property and equipment. Debt issued debt take advantage favorable pricing and liquidity the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds these issuances were will used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment existing debt. June , , had $ billion issued and outstanding debt, comprising $ billion short-term debt and $ billion long-term debt. Short-term debt June , , had $ billion commercial paper issued and outstanding, with weighted-average interest rate % and maturities ranging from days days. The estimated fair value this commercial paper approximates its carrying value. have $ billion credit facility that expires November , , which serves back- for our commercial paper program. June , , were compliance with the only financial covenant the credit agreement, which requires maintain coverage ratio least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense, defined the credit agreement. amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any the periods presented. Long-term debt June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. These estimated fair values are based Level inputs. PART Item The components our long-term debt and the associated interest rates were follows June , : Due Date Face Value Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate ( millions) Notes September , $ , % % February , % % November , % % May , % % December , ( ) , % % June , , % % October , , % % February , % % December , ( ) , % % November , % % May , , % % December , ( ) , % % December , ( ) , % % May , ( ) % % June , % % October , , % % February , , % % November , % % May , % % December , ( ) % % Total $ , ( ) December , issued $ billion debt securities. ( ) December , issued \x80 billion debt securities. ( ) April , issued \x80 million debt securities. The notes this table are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other senior unsecured debt outstanding. Interest these notes paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities which interest paid annually. June , , the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt was $ million. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue June , was comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either inception the agreement annually the beginning each coverage period and accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue June , also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future; Xbox Live subscriptions and prepaid points; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Office subscriptions; Bundled Offerings; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; and other offerings for which have been paid advance and earn the revenue when provide the service software, otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. PART Item The following table outlines the expected future recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Three Months Ending, September , $ , December , , March , , June , , Thereafter , Total $ , Share Repurchases September , , our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases. The share repurchase program became effective October , , has expiration date, and may suspended discontinued any time without notice. June , , $ billion remained the $ billion share repurchase program. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares Microsoft common stock for $ billion; million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the share repurchase program approved our Board Directors September , and million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the share repurchase program that was announced September , and expired September , . During fiscal years and , repurchased million shares for $ billion and million shares for $ billion, respectively, under the share repurchase program announced September , . All repurchases were made using cash resources. Dividends During fiscal years and , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , November , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Fiscal Year September , $ November , $ , December , November , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluating estimated losses these indemnifications, consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and our ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. These obligations did not have material impact our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. PART Item Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) - - Thereafter Total Long-term debt: ( ) Principal payments $ $ , $ , $ , $ , Interest payments , , , , Construction commitments ( ) Operating leases ( ) , , , , Purchase commitments ( ) , , Other long-term liabilities ( ) Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) See Note \x96 Debt the Notes Financial Statements (Part , Item this Form - ). ( ) These amounts represent commitments for the construction buildings, building improvements, and leasehold improvements. ( ) These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities leases. ( ) These amounts represent purchase commitments, including all open purchase orders and all contracts that are take- -pay contracts that are not presented construction commitments above. ( ) have excluded long-term tax contingencies, other tax liabilities, and deferred income taxes $ billion from the amounts presented. have also excluded unearned revenue and non-cash items. Other Planned Uses Capital will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. expect capital expenditures increase coming years support our cloud and devices strategy. have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability capital resources. Liquidity earn significant amount our operating income outside the ., which deemed permanently reinvested foreign jurisdictions. result, discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held foreign subsidiaries. currently not intend nor foresee need repatriate these funds. expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations continue sufficient fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and material capital expenditures, for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. addition, expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations continue sufficient fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such material capital expenditures, for least the next months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should require more capital the . than generated our operations domestically, for example fund significant discretionary activities, such business acquisitions and share repurchases, could elect repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions raise capital the . through debt equity issuances. These alternatives could result higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, dilution our earnings. have borrowed funds domestically and continue believe have the ability reasonable interest rates. PART Item RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance December , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature entity\x92 right offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure the gross amounts subject rights set-off, amounts offset accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related net exposure. January , the FASB clarified that the scope this guidance applies derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending arrangements that are either offset subject enforceable master netting arrangement, similar agreements. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance resulted only changes the presentation Note \x96 Derivatives the Notes Financial Statements. February , the FASB issued guidance disclosure requirements for items reclassified out AOCI. This new guidance requires entities present (either the face the income statement the notes financial statements) the effects the line items the income statement for amounts reclassified out AOCI. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance resulted only changes the presentation Note \x96 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income the Notes Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted March , the FASB issued guidance parent\x92 accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition subsidiary group assets within foreign entity. This new guidance requires that the parent release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only the sale transfer results the complete substantially complete liquidation the foreign entity which the subsidiary group assets had resided. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . not anticipate material impacts our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. May , part its ongoing efforts assist the convergence . GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the FASB issued new standard related revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition revenue occurs when customer obtains control promised goods services amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects receive exchange for those goods services. addition, the standard requires disclosure the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The new standard will effective for beginning July , and early adoption not permitted. anticipate this standard will have material impact our consolidated financial statements, and are currently evaluating its impact. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment determine multiple elements exist, whether elements can accounted for separate units accounting, and , the fair value for each the elements. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. Certain volume licensing arrangements include perpetual license for PART Item current products combined with rights receive unspecified future versions software products (\x93Software Assurance\x94) and are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the coverage period. Software updates are evaluated case- -case basis determine whether they meet the definition upgrade, which may require revenue deferred and recognized when the upgrade delivered. determined that implied post-contract customer support (\x93PCS\x94) being provided, revenue from the arrangement deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term. updates are determined not meet the definition upgrade, revenue generally recognized products are shipped made available. Microsoft enters into arrangements that can include various combinations software, services, and hardware. Where elements are delivered over different periods time, and when allowed under . GAAP, revenue allocated the respective elements based their relative selling prices the inception the arrangement, and revenue recognized each element delivered. use hierarchy determine the fair value used for allocating revenue elements: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence, and (iii) best estimate selling price (\x93ESP\x94). For software elements, follow the industry specific software guidance which only allows for the use VSOE establishing fair value. Generally, VSOE the price charged when the deliverable sold separately the price established management for product that not yet sold probable that the price will not change before introduction into the marketplace. ESPs are established best estimates what the selling prices would the deliverables were sold regularly stand-alone basis. Our process for determining ESPs requires judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. Windows revenue was subject deferral result the Windows Upgrade Offer, which started June , . The offer provided significantly discounted rights purchase Windows Pro qualifying end-users that purchased Windows PCs during the eligibility period. Microsoft was responsible for delivering Windows Pro the end customer. Accordingly, revenue related the allocated discount for undelivered Windows was deferred until was delivered the redemption period expired. Impairment Investment Securities review investments quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry, and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. Goodwill allocate goodwill reporting units based the reporting unit expected benefit from the business combination. evaluate our reporting units annual basis and, necessary, reassign goodwill using relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. PART Item Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated primarily through the use discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, estimation the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. The estimates used calculate the fair value reporting unit change from year year based operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. The valuation acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, resulting from the acquisition NDS, reflective the enterprise value based the long-term financial forecast for the business. this highly competitive and volatile market, possible that may not realize our forecasts. Given the value assigned goodwill the purchase price allocation, will closely monitor the performance the business versus the long-term forecast determine any impairments arise. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product are charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs are capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released manufacturing. The amortization these costs included cost revenue over the estimated life the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. recognize the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such position are measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance derecognition income tax assets and liabilities, classification current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our consolidated financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated average cost, subject the lower cost market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory PART Item quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. These reviews include analysis demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. The determination market value and the estimated volume demand used the lower cost market analysis require significant judgment. PART Item STATEMENT MANAGEMENT\x92 RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management responsible for the preparation the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based management\x92 estimates and judgments, have been prepared conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems provide reasonable assurance reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing consolidated financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented written policies, organizational structure providing division responsibilities, careful selection and training qualified personnel, and program internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, audit and render opinion the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely independent directors the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm ensure that each meeting its responsibilities and discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access the Audit Committee. Satya Nadella Chief Executive Officer Amy . Hood Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank . Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer PART Item ', 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS are exposed economic risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, equity prices, and commodity prices. portion these risks hedged, but they may impact our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily and use hedges where practicable offset the risks and maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Interest Rate Our fixed-income portfolio diversified across credit sectors and maturities, consisting primarily investment-grade securities. The credit risk and average maturity the fixed-income portfolio managed achieve economic returns that correlate certain global and domestic fixed-income indices. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency and mortgage-backed securities. Equity Our equity portfolio consists global, developed, and emerging market securities that are subject market price risk. manage the securities relative certain global and domestic indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our investment portfolio has exposure variety commodities, including precious metals, energy, and grain. manage these exposures relative global commodity indices and expect their economic risk and return correlate with these indices. VALUE- -RISK use value- -risk (\x93VaR\x94) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VaR the expected loss, for given confidence level, the fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VaR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States (\x93 . GAAP\x94), but used risk estimation and management tool. The distribution the potential changes total market value all holdings computed based the historical volatilities and correlations among foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, and commodity prices, assuming normal market conditions. The VaR calculated the total loss that will not exceeded the percentile confidence level , alternatively stated, the losses could exceed the VaR out , cases. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, and legal risk. PART Item The following table sets forth the one-day VaR for substantially all our positions June , and and for the year ended June , : ( millions) June , June , Year Ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Foreign currency $ $ $ $ $ Interest rate $ $ $ $ $ Equity $ $ $ $ $ Commodity $ $ $ $ $ Total one-day VaR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VaR % less June , , and % less June , , than the sum the separate risk categories the table above due the diversification benefit the combination risks. PART Item ', 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Cost revenue , , , Gross margin , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Goodwill impairment , Integration and restructuring Operating income , , , Other income, net Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PART Item COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income (loss): Net unrealized gains (losses) derivatives (net tax effects $( ) , $( ), and $ ) ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) investments (net tax effects $ , $ , and $( )) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other (net tax effects $ , $( ), and $( )) ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( ) Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments (including securities loaned $ and $ ) , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ and $ , , Inventories , , Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net accumulated depreciation $ , and $ , , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Short-term debt , Current portion long-term debt , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes Short-term unearned revenue , , Securities lending payable Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income , , Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash from operations: Goodwill impairment , Depreciation, amortization, and other , , , Stock-based compensation expense , , , Net recognized losses (gains) investments and derivatives ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Deferral unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Other current liabilities , Other long-term liabilities , , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Proceeds from issuance short-term debt, maturities days less, net Proceeds from issuance debt , , Repayments debt ( , ) ( , ) Common stock issued , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends paid ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Other ( ) ( ) Net cash used financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible and other assets ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Securities lending payable ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash used investing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Effect exchange rates cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Net change cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) ( , ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June , Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock-based compensation income tax benefits (deficiencies) ( ) Other, net Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings (deficit) Balance, beginning period , ( ) ( , ) Net income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period , , ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income Balance, beginning period , , , Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( ) Balance, end period , , , Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PART Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE \x97 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Principles The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America (\x93 . GAAP\x94). Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments through which are able exercise significant influence over but not control the investee and are not the primary beneficiary the investee\x92 activities are accounted for using the equity method. Investments through which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee and which not have readily determinable fair values are accounted for under the cost method. Estimates and Assumptions Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples estimates include: loss contingencies; product warranties; the fair value , and potential goodwill impairment for, our reporting units; product life cycles; useful lives our tangible and intangible assets; allowances for doubtful accounts; allowances for product returns; the market value our inventory; and stock-based compensation forfeiture rates. Examples assumptions include: the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our consolidated financial statements tax returns; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. Recasting Certain Prior Period Information During the first quarter fiscal year , changed our organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. result, information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes allocating resources and assessing performance changed. Therefore, beginning fiscal year , reported our financial performance based our new segments described Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data. have recast certain prior period amounts conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during fiscal year . This change impacted Note \x96 Goodwill, Note \x96 Unearned Revenue, and Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data, with impact our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are recorded other comprehensive income (\x93OCI\x94). Revenue Recognition Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectability probable. Revenue generally recognized net allowances for returns and any taxes collected from customers and subsequently remitted governmental authorities. PART Item Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment determine multiple elements exist, whether elements can accounted for separate units accounting, and , the fair value for each the elements. Microsoft enters into arrangements that can include various combinations software, services, and hardware. Where elements are delivered over different periods time, and when allowed under . GAAP, revenue allocated the respective elements based their relative selling prices the inception the arrangement, and revenue recognized each element delivered. use hierarchy determine the fair value used for allocating revenue elements: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence, and (iii) best estimate selling price (\x93ESP\x94). For software elements, follow the industry specific software guidance which only allows for the use VSOE establishing fair value. Generally, VSOE the price charged when the deliverable sold separately the price established management for product that not yet sold probable that the price will not change before introduction into the marketplace. ESPs are established best estimates what the selling prices would the deliverables were sold regularly stand-alone basis. Our process for determining ESPs requires judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (\x93OEMs\x94), and perpetual licenses under certain volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped made available. Technology guarantee programs are accounted for multiple-element arrangements customers receive free significantly discounted rights use upcoming new versions software product they license existing versions the product during the eligibility period. Revenue allocated between the existing product and the new product, and revenue allocated the new product deferred until that version delivered. The revenue allocation based the VSOE fair value the products. The VSOE fair value for upcoming new products are based the price determined management having the relevant authority when the element not yet sold separately, but expected sold the near future the price set management. Software updates that will provided free charge are evaluated case- -case basis determine whether they meet the definition upgrade and create multiple-element arrangement, which may require revenue deferred and recognized when the upgrade delivered, determined that implied post-contract customer support (\x93PCS\x94) being provided, the arrangement accounted for multiple-element arrangement and all revenue from the arrangement deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term when the VSOE fair value does not exist. updates are determined not meet the definition upgrade, revenue generally recognized products are shipped made available. Certain volume licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive unspecified future versions software products (\x93Software Assurance\x94), which have determined are additional software products and are therefore accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the coverage period. Arrangements that include term-based licenses for current products with the right use unspecified future versions the software during the coverage period, are also accounted for subscriptions, with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Revenue from cloud-based services arrangements that allow for the use hosted software product service over contractually determined period time without taking possession software are accounted for subscriptions with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the coverage period beginning the date the service made available customers. Revenue from cloud-based services arrangements that are provided consumption basis (for example, the amount storage used particular period) recognized commensurate with the customer utilization such resources. Some volume licensing arrangements include time-based subscriptions for cloud-based services and software offerings that are accounted for subscriptions. These arrangements are considered multiple-element arrangements. However, because all elements are accounted for subscriptions and have the same coverage period and delivery pattern, they have the same revenue recognition timing. PART Item Revenue related phones, Surface, Xbox consoles, games published , and other hardware components generally recognized when ownership transferred the resellers end customers when selling directly through Microsoft retail stores and online marketplaces. portion revenue may deferred when these products are combined with software elements, and services. Revenue related licensing for games published third parties for use the Xbox consoles recognized when games are manufactured the game publishers. Display advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Consulting revenue for fixed-price services arrangements recognized services are provided. Revenue from prepaid points redeemable for the purchase software services recognized upon redemption the points and delivery the software services. Cost Revenue Cost revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred include software PCs sold OEMs, drive traffic our websites, and acquire online advertising space (\x93traffic acquisition costs\x94); costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, including datacenter costs and royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery consulting services; and the amortization capitalized research and development costs. Capitalized research and development costs are amortized over the estimated lives the products. Product Warranty provide for the estimated costs fulfilling our obligations under hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. For hardware warranties, estimate the costs based historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge specific product failures ( any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and the country which business, but generally include parts and labor over period generally ranging from days three years. For software warranties, estimate the costs provide bug fixes, such security patches, over the estimated life the software. regularly reevaluate our estimates assess the adequacy the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts necessary. Research and Development Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Such costs related software development are included research and development expense until the point that technological feasibility reached, which for our software products, generally shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Once technological feasibility reached, such costs are capitalized and amortized cost revenue over the estimated lives the products. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. PART Item Stock-Based Compensation measure stock-based compensation cost the grant date based the fair value the award and recognize expense, net estimated forfeitures, over the vesting service period, applicable, the stock award (generally four five years) using the straight-line method. Employee Stock Purchase Plan Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the stock the last day each three-month period. Compensation expense for the employee stock purchase plan measured the discount the employee entitled upon purchase and recognized the period purchase. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested, and interest and penalties uncertain tax positions. Certain income and expenses are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. Deferred tax assets are reported net valuation allowance when more likely than not that tax benefit will not realized. The deferred income taxes are classified current long-term based the classification the related asset liability. Fair Value Measurements account for certain assets and liabilities fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels fair value based the extent which inputs used measuring fair value are observable the market. categorize each our fair value measurements one these three levels based the lowest level input that significant the fair value measurement its entirety. These levels are: \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments traded active markets. Our Level non-derivative investments primarily include . government securities, domestic and international equities, and actively traded mutual funds. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities include those actively traded exchanges. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments active markets, quoted prices for identical similar instruments markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques ( . the Black-Scholes model) for which all significant inputs are observable the market can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Our Level non-derivative investments consist primarily corporate notes and bonds, common and preferred stock, mortgage-backed securities, certificates deposit, and foreign government bonds. Our Level derivative assets and liabilities primarily include certain over-the-counter option and swap contracts. \x95 Level \x96 inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The fair values are therefore determined using model-based techniques, including option pricing models and discounted cash flow models. Our Level non-derivative assets primarily comprise investments common and preferred stock and goodwill when recorded fair value due impairment charge. Unobservable inputs used the models are significant the fair values the assets and liabilities. measure certain assets, including our cost and equity method investments, fair value nonrecurring basis when they are deemed other-than-temporarily impaired. The fair values these investments are determined PART Item based valuation techniques using the best information available, and may include quoted market prices, market comparables, and discounted cash flow projections. impairment charge recorded when the cost the investment exceeds its fair value and this condition determined other-than-temporary. Our other current financial assets and our current financial liabilities have fair values that approximate their carrying values. Financial Instruments consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. The fair values these investments approximate their carrying values. general, investments with original maturities greater than three months and remaining maturities less than one year are classified short-term investments. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes market value, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments classified long-term include both debt and equity instruments. With the exception certain corporate notes that are classified held- -maturity, debt and publicly-traded equity securities are classified available-for-sale and realized gains and losses are recorded using the specific identification method. Changes the market value available-for-sale securities, excluding other-than-temporary impairments, are reflected OCI. Held- -maturity investments are recorded and held amortized cost. Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost using the equity method. lend certain fixed-income and equity securities increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue carried investments our balance sheet. Cash and security interests are received collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness the borrower. Cash received recorded asset with corresponding liability. Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. Fair value calculated based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability hold, plans sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, also evaluate whether have plans sell the security more likely than not that will required sell the security before recovery. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded other income (expense) and new cost basis the investment established. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments designated fair value hedges, the gains (losses) are recognized earnings the periods change together with the offsetting losses (gains) the hedged items attributed the risk being hedged. For options designated fair value hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments designated cash-flow hedges, the effective portion the gains (losses) the derivatives initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged PART Item exposure recognized earnings. For options designated cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains (losses) derivatives representing either hedge components excluded from the assessment effectiveness hedge ineffectiveness are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that are not designated hedges, gains (losses) from changes fair values are primarily recognized other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded component OCI until the securities are sold other-than-temporarily impaired, which time the amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) into other income (expense). Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning period $ $ $ Charged costs and other Write-offs ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end period $ $ $ Inventories Inventories are stated average cost, subject the lower cost market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis through charge cost revenue. The determination market value and the estimated volume demand used the lower cost market analysis require significant judgment. Property and Equipment Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated useful life the asset the lease term. The estimated useful lives our property and equipment are generally follows: computer software developed acquired for internal use, three seven years; computer equipment, two three years; buildings and improvements, five years; leasehold improvements, two years; and furniture and equipment, one years. Land not depreciated. Goodwill Goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (May for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. Intangible Assets All our intangible assets are subject amortization and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically taking into account events circumstances that may warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate the asset may impaired. PART Item Recent Accounting Guidance Recently adopted accounting guidance December , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature entity\x92 right offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure the gross amounts subject rights set-off, amounts offset accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related net exposure. January , the FASB clarified that the scope this guidance applies derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending arrangements that are either offset subject enforceable master netting arrangement, similar agreements. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance resulted only changes the presentation Note \x96 Derivatives. February , the FASB issued guidance disclosure requirements for items reclassified out AOCI. This new guidance requires entities present (either the face the income statement the notes financial statements) the effects the line items the income statement for amounts reclassified out AOCI. adopted this new guidance beginning July , . Adoption this new guidance resulted only changes the presentation Note \x96 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. Recent accounting guidance not yet adopted March , the FASB issued guidance parent\x92 accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition subsidiary group assets within foreign entity. This new guidance requires that the parent release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only the sale transfer results the complete substantially complete liquidation the foreign entity which the subsidiary group assets had resided. The new guidance will effective for beginning July , . not anticipate material impacts our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. May , part its ongoing efforts assist the convergence . GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the FASB issued new standard related revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition revenue occurs when customer obtains control promised goods services amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects receive exchange for those goods services. addition, the standard requires disclosure the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The new standard will effective for beginning July , and early adoption not permitted. anticipate this standard will have material impact, and are currently evaluating the impact this standard will have our consolidated financial statements. NOTE \x97 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share (\x93EPS\x94) computed based the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS computed based the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards. PART Item The components basic and diluted EPS are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June , Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect stock-based awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings Per Share Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ Anti-dilutive stock-based awards excluded from the calculations diluted EPS were immaterial during the periods presented. NOTE \x97 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components other income (expense) were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Dividends and interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Net recognized gains investments Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Net losses foreign currency remeasurements ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Total $ $ $ Following are details net recognized gains (losses) investments during the periods reported: ( millions) Year Ended June , Other-than-temporary impairments investments $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Realized gains from sales available-for-sale securities , Realized losses from sales available-for-sale securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ PART Item NOTE \x97 INVESTMENTS Investment Components The components investments, including associated derivatives, but excluding held- -maturity investments, were follows: ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds Commercial paper Certificates deposit , , . government and agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds , ( ) , , , Mortgage-backed securities ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , , Other investments , , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost Basis Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Recorded Basis Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-term Investments Equity and Other Investments June , Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Mutual funds Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , ( ) , , Foreign government bonds ( ) Mortgage-backed securities , ( ) , , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities ( ) Common and preferred stock , , ( ) , , Other investments , , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , addition the investments the table above, also own corporate notes that were purchased connection with our agreement lend $ billion the group that completed their acquisition Dell October , . These corporate notes are classified held- -maturity investments and are included equity and other investments the balance sheet. June , , the amortized cost, recorded basis, and estimated fair value these corporate notes was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, while their associated gross unrecognized holding gains were $ million. June , and , the recorded bases common and preferred stock that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded were $ million and $ million, respectively. These investments are carried cost and are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. not practicable for reliably estimate the fair value these investments. PART Item Unrealized Losses Investments Investments, excluding those held- -maturity, with continuous unrealized losses for less than months and months greater and their related fair values were follows: Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , . government and agency securities $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ , $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Common and preferred stock ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total Unrealized Losses ( millions) Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Total Fair Value June , . government and agency securities $ , $ ( ) $ $ $ , $ ( ) Foreign government bonds ( ) ( ) ( ) Mortgage-backed securities ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Municipal securities ( ) ( ) Common and preferred stock , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) June , , did not hold any held- -maturity investments that are unrealized loss position. Unrealized losses from fixed-income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. Management does not believe any remaining unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairments based our evaluation available evidence June , . Debt Investment Maturities ( millions) Cost Basis Estimated Fair Value June , Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through years , , Due after years , , Total ( ) $ , $ , ( ) Excludes held- -maturity investments due October , with cost basis and estimated fair value June , $ billion and $ billion, respectively. PART Item NOTE \x97 DERIVATIVES use derivative instruments manage risks related foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Our derivative programs include strategies that both qualify and not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. All notional amounts presented below are measured . dollar equivalents. Foreign Currency Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the economic effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Option and forward contracts are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash flow hedging instruments. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. June , and June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Foreign currency risks related certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair value hedging instruments. June , and June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments are also used manage the variability exchange rates accounts receivable, cash, and intercompany positions, and manage other foreign currency exposures. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts these foreign exchange contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Equity Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject market price risk. Market price risk managed relative broad-based global and domestic equity indices using certain convertible preferred investments, options, futures, and swap contracts not designated hedging instruments. From time time, hedge our price risk, may use and designate equity derivatives hedging instruments, including puts, calls, swaps, and forwards. June , , the total notional amounts equity contracts purchased and sold for managing market price risk were $ billion and $ billion, respectively, which $ million and $ million, respectively, were designated hedging instruments. June , , the total notional amounts equity contracts purchased and sold for managing market price risk were $ million and $ billion, respectively, none which were designated hedging instruments. Interest Rate Securities held our fixed-income portfolio are subject different interest rate risks based their maturities. manage the average maturity our fixed-income portfolio achieve economic returns that correlate certain broad-based fixed-income indices using exchange-traded option and futures contracts and over-the-counter swap and option contracts, none which are designated hedging instruments. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts fixed-interest rate contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. addition, use \x93 Announced\x94 forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets gain exposure agency mortgage-backed securities. These meet the definition derivative instrument cases where physical delivery the assets not taken the earliest available delivery date. June , and , the total notional derivative amounts mortgage contracts purchased were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. PART Item Credit Our fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment-grade securities. use credit default swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments, manage credit exposures relative broad-based indices and facilitate portfolio diversification. use credit default swaps they are low cost method managing exposure individual credit risks groups credit risks. June , , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts credit contracts purchased and sold were $ million and $ million, respectively. Commodity use broad-based commodity exposures enhance portfolio returns and facilitate portfolio diversification. use swaps, futures, and option contracts, not designated hedging instruments, generate and manage exposures broad-based commodity indices. use derivatives commodities they can low-cost alternatives the purchase and storage variety commodities, including, but not limited , precious metals, energy, and grain. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. June , , the total notional amounts commodity contracts purchased and sold were $ billion and $ million, respectively. Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features Certain our counterparty agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that require our issued and outstanding long-term unsecured debt maintain investment grade credit rating and require maintain minimum liquidity $ billion. the extent fail meet these requirements, will required post collateral, similar the standard convention related over-the-counter derivatives. June , , our long-term unsecured debt rating was AAA, and cash investments were excess $ billion. result, collateral was required posted. PART Item Fair Values Derivative Instruments The following tables present the fair values derivative instruments designated hedging instruments (\x93designated hedge derivatives\x94) and not designated hedging instruments (\x93non-designated hedge derivatives\x94). The fair values exclude the impact netting derivative assets and liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk: June , June , Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities ( millions) Short-term Investments Other Current Assets Equity and Other Investments Other Current Liabilities Short-term Investments Other Current Assets Other Current Liabilities Non-designated Hedge Derivatives Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) Equity contracts ( ) ( ) Interest rate contracts ( ) ( ) Credit contracts ( ) ( ) Commodity contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) Designated Hedge Derivatives Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Equity contracts ( ) Total $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Total gross amounts derivatives $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) Gross derivatives either offset subject enforceable master netting agreement $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) Gross amounts offset the balance sheet ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net amounts presented the balance sheet $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) Gross amounts not offset the balance sheet Net amount $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) See also Note \x96 Investments and Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements. PART Item Fair Value Hedge Gains (Losses) recognized other income (expense) the following gains (losses) contracts designated fair value hedges and their related hedged items: ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign Exchange Contracts Derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Hedged items ( ) ( ) Total amount ineffectiveness $ ( ) $ $ Equity Contracts Derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Hedged items Total amount ineffectiveness $ $ $ Amount equity contracts excluded from effectiveness assessment $ ( ) $ $ Cash Flow Hedge Gains (Losses) recognized the following gains (losses) foreign exchange contracts designated cash flow hedges (our only cash flow hedges during the periods presented): ( millions) Year Ended June , Effective Portion Gains recognized OCI, net tax effects $ , $ and $ $ $ $ Gains (losses) reclassified from AOCI into revenue $ $ $ ( ) Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Assessment and Ineffective Portion Losses recognized other income (expense) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) estimate that $ million net derivative gains included AOCI June , will reclassified into earnings within the following months. significant amounts gains (losses) were reclassified from AOCI into earnings result forecasted transactions that failed occur during fiscal year . Non-Designated Derivative Gains (Losses) Gains (losses) from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges are primarily recognized other income (expense). These amounts are shown the table below, with the exception gains (losses) derivatives presented income statement line items other than other income (expense), which were immaterial for the periods presented. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such commodity contracts, the gains (losses) below are generally economically offset unrealized gains (losses) the underlying available-for-sale securities. ( millions) Year Ended June , Foreign exchange contracts $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Equity contracts ( ) ( ) Interest-rate contracts ( ) Credit contracts ( ) ( ) Commodity contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) PART Item NOTE \x97 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The following tables present the fair value our financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis: ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ $ $ $ $ $ Commercial paper Certificates deposit , , , . government and agency securities , , , Foreign government bonds , , , Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( millions) Level Level Level Gross Fair Value Netting ( ) Net Fair Value June , Assets Mutual funds $ $ $ $ $ $ Commercial paper Certificates deposit . government and agency securities , , , , Foreign government bonds Mortgage-backed securities , , , Corporate notes and bonds , , , Municipal securities Common and preferred stock , , , Derivatives ( ) Total $ , $ , $ $ , $ ( ) $ , Liabilities Derivatives and other $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) These amounts represent the impact netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when legally enforceable master netting agreement exists and fair value adjustments related our own credit risk and counterparty credit risk. connection with the transaction acquire substantially all Nokia Corporation\x92 (\x93Nokia\x94) Devices and Services Business (\x93NDS\x94), September , provided Nokia \x80 billion ($ billion) principal convertible notes classified Level financial instruments. Upon closing the acquisition, Nokia repurchased these notes their principal amount plus accrued interest. All other changes our Level financial instruments that are measured fair value recurring basis were immaterial during the periods presented. PART Item The following table reconciles the total Net Fair Value assets above the balance sheet presentation these same assets Note \x96 Investments. ( millions) June , Net fair value assets measured fair value recurring basis $ , $ , Cash , , Common and preferred stock measured fair value nonrecurring basis Other investments measured fair value nonrecurring basis , , Less derivative net assets classified other current assets ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Recorded basis investment components ( ) $ , $ , ( ) Excludes held- -maturity investments recorded amortized cost and measured fair value nonrecurring basis. Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured Fair Value Nonrecurring Basis During fiscal year and , did not record any material other-than-temporary impairments financial assets required measured fair value nonrecurring basis. NOTE \x97 INVENTORIES The components inventories were follows: ( millions) June , Raw materials $ $ Work process Finished goods , , Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The components property and equipment were follows: ( millions) June , Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements , , Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment , , Total, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Total, net $ , $ , During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. PART Item NOTE \x97 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Nokia\x92 Devices and Services Business April , , completed the transaction acquire substantially all NDS for total purchase price $ billion, including cash acquired $ billion (\x93the Acquisition\x94). The purchase price consisted primarily cash $ billion and Nokia\x92 repurchase convertible notes $ billion which was non-cash transaction. The Acquisition expected accelerate the growth our Devices and Consumer (\x93 & \x94) business through faster innovation, synergies, and unified branding and marketing. The purchase price allocation the date the Acquisition was based preliminary valuation and subject revision more detailed analyses are completed and additional information about the fair value assets acquired and liabilities assumed become available. The major classes assets and liabilities which have preliminarily allocated the purchase price were follows: ( millions) Cash $ , Accounts receivable ( ) Inventories Other current assets Property and equipment Intangible assets , Goodwill ( ) , Other Current liabilities ( , ) Long-term liabilities ( ) Total purchase price $ , ( ) Gross accounts receivable $ million, which $ million expected uncollectible. ( ) Goodwill was assigned our new Phone Hardware segment. The goodwill was primarily attributed increased synergies that are expected achieved from the integration NDS. Goodwill $ billion expected deductible Finland for tax purposes. Following are the details the purchase price allocated the intangible assets acquired: ( millions) Amount Weighted Average Life Technology-based $ , years Contract-based , years Customer-related years Marketing-related (trade names) years Fair value intangible assets acquired $ , years Our consolidated income statement for fiscal year includes revenue and operating loss $ billion and $ million, respectively, attributable NDS since the Acquisition. PART Item Following are the supplemental consolidated results Microsoft Corporation unaudited pro forma basis, the Acquisition had been consummated July , : ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June , Revenue $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , Diluted earnings per share $ $ These pro forma results were based estimates and assumptions, which believe are reasonable. They are not the results that would have been realized had been combined company during the periods presented and are not necessarily indicative our consolidated results operations future periods. The pro forma results include adjustments primarily related purchase accounting adjustments and the elimination related party transactions between Microsoft and NDS. Acquisition costs and other non-recurring charges incurred are included the earliest period presented. During the fourth quarter fiscal year , incurred $ million acquisition costs associated with the purchase NDS. Acquisition costs are primarily comprised transaction fees and direct acquisition costs, including legal, finance, consulting, and other professional fees. These costs are included Integration and restructuring costs our consolidated income statement for fiscal year . Certain concurrent transactions were recognized separately from the Acquisition. Prior the Acquisition, had joint strategic initiatives with Nokia; this contractual relationship was terminated conjunction with the Acquisition. gain loss was recorded upon termination this agreement, was determined market value. addition, agreed license Nokia\x92 mapping services and will pay Nokia separately for the services provided under four-year license they are rendered. Yammer July , , acquired Yammer, Inc. (\x93Yammer\x94), leading provider enterprise social networks, for $ billion cash. Yammer will continue develop its standalone service and will add enterprise social networking service Microsoft\x92 portfolio complementary cloud-based services. The major classes assets which allocated the purchase price were goodwill $ million and identifiable intangible assets $ million. assigned the goodwill Commercial Other under our current segment structure. Yammer was consolidated into our results operations starting the acquisition date. Skype October , , acquired Skype Global . (\x93Skype\x94), leading global provider software applications and related Internet communications products based Luxembourg, for $ billion, primarily cash. The major classes assets and liabilities which allocated the purchase price were goodwill $ billion, identifiable intangible assets $ billion, and unearned revenue $ million. The goodwill recognized connection with the acquisition primarily attributable our expectation extending Skype\x92 brand and the reach its networked platform, while enhancing Microsoft\x92 existing portfolio real-time communications products and services. assigned the goodwill the following segments under our current segment structure: $ billion Commercial Licensing, $ billion Computing and Gaming Hardware, and $ million & Other. Skype was consolidated into our results operations starting the acquisition date. PART Item Following are the details the purchase price allocated the intangible assets acquired: ( millions) Weighted Average Life Marketing-related (trade names) $ , years Technology-based years Customer-related years Contract-based years Total $ , years Other During fiscal year , completed five additional acquisitions for total consideration $ million, all which was paid cash. These entities have been included our consolidated results operations since their respective acquisition dates. With the exception NDS, pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects the business combinations described this note, individually and aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. NOTE \x97 GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill were follows: ( millions) June , Acquisitions Other June , Acquisitions Other June , Devices and Consumer Licensing $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Hardware: Computing and Gaming Hardware , ( ) , , Phone Hardware , ( ) ( ) , Total & Hardware , ( ) , , ( ) , Other ( ) Total Devices and Consumer , ( ) , , ( ) , Commercial Licensing , ( ) , , Other , ( ) , ( ) , Total Commercial , , ( ) , , Total goodwill $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , ( ) Goodwill acquired during fiscal year related the acquisition NDS. See Note \x96 Business Combinations for additional details. The measurement periods for the valuation assets acquired and liabilities assumed end soon information the facts and circumstances that existed the acquisition dates becomes available, but not exceed months. Adjustments purchase price allocations may require recasting the amounts allocated goodwill retroactive the periods which the acquisitions occurred. PART Item Any change the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations are presented \x93Other\x94 the above table. Also included \x93Other\x94 are business dispositions and transfers between business segments due reorganizations, applicable. discussed Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data, during the first quarter fiscal year , changed our organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. This resulted change our operating segments and reporting units. allocated goodwill our new reporting units using relative fair value approach. addition, completed assessment any potential goodwill impairment for all reporting units immediately prior the reallocation and determined that impairment existed. Goodwill Impairment test goodwill for impairment annually May the reporting unit level using discounted cash flow methodology with peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost capital. believe use discounted cash flow approach the most reliable indicator the fair values the businesses. impairment goodwill was identified May , May , . Upon completion the fiscal year test, the goodwill our OSD unit ( Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure) was determined impaired. The impairment was the result the OSD unit experiencing slower than projected growth search queries and search advertising revenue per query, slower growth display revenue, and changes the timing and implementation certain initiatives designed drive search and display revenue growth the future. This goodwill impairment charge $ billion also represented our accumulated goodwill impairment June , and . NOTE \x97 INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components intangible assets, all which are finite-lived, were follows: ( millions) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Year Ended June , Technology-based ( ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Marketing-related , ( ) , , ( ) , Contract-based , ( ) , ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) Technology-based intangible assets included $ million and $ million June , and , respectively, net carrying amount software sold, leased, otherwise marketed. estimate that have significant residual value related our intangible assets. material impairments intangible assets were identified during any the periods presented. The components intangible assets acquired during the periods presented were follows: ( millions) Amount Weighted Average Life Amount Weighted Average Life Year Ended June , Technology-based $ , years $ years Marketing-related years years Contract-based , years * Customer-related years years Total $ , years $ years * Not applicable PART Item The table above includes $ billion related the acquisition NDS during fiscal year . See Note \x96 Business Combination for additional details. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. Amortization capitalized software was $ million, $ million, and $ million for fiscal years , , and , respectively. The following table outlines the estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets held June , : ( millions) Year Ending June , $ , , Thereafter , Total $ , NOTE \x97 DEBT June , , had $ billion issued and outstanding debt, comprising $ billion short-term debt and $ billion long-term debt. June , , had $ billion issued and outstanding long-term debt. Short-term Debt June , , had $ billion commercial paper issued and outstanding, with weighted-average interest rate % and maturities ranging from days days. The estimated fair value this commercial paper approximates its carrying value. have $ billion credit facility that expires November , , which serves back- for our commercial paper program. June , , were compliance with the only financial covenant the credit agreement, which requires maintain coverage ratio least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization interest expense, defined the credit agreement. amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any the periods presented. Long-term Debt June , , the total carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. This compared carrying value and estimated fair value our long-term debt, including the current portion, $ billion and $ billion, respectively, June , . These estimated fair values are based Level inputs. PART Item The components our long-term debt and the associated interest rates were follows June , and : Due Date Face Value June , Face Value June , Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate ( millions) Notes September , $ * $ , % % June , * , % % September , , , % % February , % % November , % % May , % % December , ( ) , * % % June , , , % % October , , , % % February , % % December , ( ) , * % % November , % % May , , , % % December , ( ) , * % % December , ( ) , * % % May , ( ) % % June , % % October , , , % % February , , , % % November , % % May , % % December , ( ) * % % Total $ , $ , ( ) December , issued $ billion debt securities. ( ) December , issued \x80 billion debt securities. ( ) April , issued \x80 million debt securities. * Not applicable. The notes this table are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other senior unsecured debt outstanding. Interest these notes paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities which interest paid annually. Cash paid for interest our debt for fiscal years , , and was $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. June , and , the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $ million and $ million, respectively. PART Item Debt Service Maturities our long-term debt for each the next five years and thereafter are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ , , , Thereafter , Total $ , NOTE \x97 INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Current Taxes . federal $ , $ , $ , . state and local Foreign , , , Current taxes , , , Deferred Taxes Deferred taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , . and foreign components income before income taxes were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , . $ , $ , $ , Foreign , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the . federal statutory rate and our effective rate were follows: Year Ended June , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Goodwill impairment % % % Other reconciling items, net % % % Effective rate % % % The reduction from the federal statutory rate from foreign earnings taxed lower rates results from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers Ireland, Singapore, and PART Item Puerto Rico. Our foreign earnings, which are taxed rates lower than the . rate and are generated from our regional operating centers, were %, %, and % our foreign income before tax fiscal years , , and , respectively. general, other reconciling items consist interest, adjustments for intercompany transfer pricing, . state income taxes, domestic production deductions, and credits. fiscal years , , and , there were individually significant other reconciling items. The components the deferred income tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( millions) June , Deferred Income Tax Assets Stock-based compensation expense $ $ Other expense items , Unearned revenue Impaired investments Loss carryforwards Other revenue items Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Less valuation allowance ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax assets, net valuation allowance $ , $ , Deferred Income Tax Liabilities Foreign earnings $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Unrealized gain investments ( , ) ( , ) Depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) $ ( ) $ ( ) Reported Current deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Other current liabilities ( ) Other long-term assets Long-term deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) $ ( ) $ ( ) June , , had net operating loss carryforwards $ billion, including $ billion foreign net operating loss carryforwards acquired through our acquisition Skype, and $ million through our acquisition NDS. The valuation allowance disclosed the table above relates the foreign net operating loss carryforwards and other net deferred tax assets that may not realized. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when the taxes are actually paid recovered. June , , have not provided deferred . income taxes foreign withholding taxes temporary differences approximately $ billion resulting from earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries which are permanently reinvested outside the . The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these temporary differences was approximately $ billion June , . Income taxes paid were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. PART Item Uncertain Tax Positions Unrecognized tax benefits June , , , and , were $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. recognized, these tax benefits would affect our effective tax rates for fiscal years , , and , $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively. June , , , and , had accrued interest expense related uncertain tax positions $ billion, $ billion, and $ million, respectively, net federal income tax benefits. Interest expense unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. The aggregate changes the balance unrecognized tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year $ , $ , $ , Decreases related settlements ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases for tax positions related the current year Increases for tax positions related prior years Decreases for tax positions related prior years ( ) ( ) ( ) Decreases due lapsed statutes limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year $ , $ , $ , During the third quarter fiscal year , reached settlement portion . audit tax years , which reduced our income tax expense $ million. While settled portion the . audit, remain under audit for these years. February , the . withdrew its Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase the examination. June , , the primary unresolved issue relates transfer pricing, which could have significant impact our consolidated financial statements not resolved favorably. believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. have not received proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and not expect final resolution these issues the next months. Based the information currently available, not anticipate significant increase decrease our tax contingencies for these issues within the next months. also continue subject examination the . for tax years . are subject income tax many jurisdictions outside the . Our operations certain jurisdictions remain subject examination for tax years , some which are currently under audit local tax authorities. The resolutions these audits are not expected material our consolidated financial statements. NOTE \x97 UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue segment was follows, with segments with significant balances shown separately: ( millions) June , Commercial Licensing $ , $ , Commercial Other , , Rest the segments , , Total $ , $ , PART Item NOTE \x97 OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June , Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities $ , $ , Other , Total $ , $ , NOTE \x97 COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES Construction and Operating Leases have committed $ million for constructing new buildings, building improvements, and leasehold improvements June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices, research and development facilities, manufacturing facilities, and certain equipment. Rental expense for facilities operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable facilities operating leases place June , are follows: ( millions) Year Ending June , $ Thereafter , Total $ , Indemnifications provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products and certain other matters. evaluate estimated losses for these indemnifications, and consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered significant costs result these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related these indemnifications our consolidated financial statements. NOTE \x97 CONTINGENCIES Antitrust, Unfair Competition, and Overcharge Class Actions large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits were filed against various state, federal, and Canadian courts behalf various classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain other software products between and . obtained dismissals reached settlements all claims made the United States. Under the settlements, generally class members can obtain vouchers that entitle them reimbursed for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers that may issue varies state. will make available certain schools percentage those vouchers that are not issued claimed (one-half two- PART Item thirds depending the state). The total value vouchers ultimately issue will depend the number class members who make claims and are issued vouchers. estimate the total remaining cost the settlements approximately $ million, all which had been accrued June , . Three similar cases pending British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec, Canada have not been settled. March , the court the British Columbia case certified class action. The plaintiffs successfully appealed British Columbia Court Appeal decision reversing class certification and dismissing the case. October , the Canadian Supreme Court reversed the appellate court and reinstated part the British Columbia case, which now scheduled for trial September . The other two cases were inactive pending action the Supreme Court the British Columbia case. Other Antitrust Litigation and Claims Novell litigation November , Novell, Inc. (\x93Novell\x94) filed complaint . District Court for the District Utah (later transferred federal court Maryland), asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . After the trial court dismissed granted summary judgment number Novell\x92 claims, trial the one remaining claim took place late and resulted mistrial. July , the trial court granted Microsoft\x92 motion for judgment matter law. Novell appealed this decision the . Court Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which affirmed the trial court\x92 decision September . The Supreme Court denied Novell\x92 petition for review April . Computer litigation June , Computer Inc. and -founder Jerry Kaplan filed complaint California state court asserting antitrust claims under the Cartwright Act related the business the former Corporation the early 1990s and its successor interest, Lucent Corporation the early 2000s. All claims prior June have been dismissed with prejudice barred the statute limitations. After mini-trial standing issues, the case now moving forward with discovery, and trial set for September . China State Administration for Industry and Commerce investigation July , , Microsoft was informed that China\x92 State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) had begun formal investigation relating China\x92 Anti-Monopoly Law, and the SAIC conducted onsite inspections Microsoft offices Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Chengdu. SAIC has stated the investigation relates compatibility, bundle sales, and file verification issues related Windows and Office software. Patent and Intellectual Property Claims Motorola litigation October , Microsoft filed patent infringement complaints against Motorola Mobility (\x93Motorola\x94) with the International Trade Commission (\x93ITC\x94) and . District Court Seattle for infringement nine Microsoft patents Motorola\x92 Android devices. Since then, Microsoft and Motorola have filed additional claims against each other with the ITC, federal district courts Seattle, Wisconsin, Florida, and California, and courts Germany and the United Kingdom. The nature the claims asserted and status individual matters are summarized below. International Trade Commission May , the ITC issued limited exclusion order against Motorola one Microsoft patent, which became effective July and was affirmed appeal December . July , Microsoft filed action . District Court Washington, . seeking order compel enforcement the ITC\x92 May import ban against infringing Motorola products the Bureau Customs and Border Protection (\x93CBP\x94), after learning that CBP had failed fully enforce the order. PART Item November , Motorola filed action against Microsoft with the ITC alleging infringement five Motorola patents Xbox consoles and accessories and seeking exclusion order prohibit importation the allegedly infringing Xbox products. Motorola\x92 request, the ITC terminated its investigation four Motorola patents. March , the ITC affirmed there was violation the remaining Motorola patent. Motorola appealed the ITC\x92 decision the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit. . District Court The Seattle District Court case filed October Microsoft companion Microsoft\x92 ITC case against Motorola was stayed pending the outcome the ITC case. November , Microsoft sued Motorola for breach contract . District Court Seattle, alleging that Motorola breached its commitments standards-setting organizations license Microsoft certain patents reasonable and non-discriminatory (\x93RAND\x94) terms and conditions. Motorola has declared these patents essential the implementation the video standard and the - standard. the Motorola ITC case described above and suits described below, Motorola Motorola affiliate subsequently sued Microsoft those patents . District Courts, the ITC, and Germany. February , the Seattle District Court granted partial summary judgment favor Microsoft ruling that ( ) Motorola had committed standards organizations license its declared-essential patents RAND terms and conditions; and ( ) Microsoft third-party beneficiary those commitments. After trial, the Seattle District Court set per unit royalties for Motorola\x92 and patents, which resulted immaterial Microsoft liability. September , following trial Microsoft\x92 breach contract claim, jury awarded $ million damages Microsoft. Motorola appealed. Cases filed Motorola Wisconsin, California, and Florida, with the exception one currently stayed case Wisconsin ( companion case Motorola\x92 ITC action), have been transferred the District Court Seattle. Motorola and Microsoft both seek damages well injunctive relief. The court has stayed these cases agreement the parties. \x95 the transferred cases, Motorola asserts patents are infringed range Microsoft products including mobile and operating system, productivity, server, communication, browser and gaming products. \x95 the Motorola action originally filed California, Motorola asserts Microsoft violated antitrust laws connection with Microsoft\x92 assertion patents against Motorola that Microsoft agreed license certain qualifying entities RAND terms and conditions. \x95 counterclaims, Microsoft asserts patents are infringed Motorola Android devices and certain Motorola digital video recorders. Germany July , Motorola filed patent infringement actions Germany against Microsoft and several Microsoft subsidiaries. \x95 Motorola asserts two patents (one now expired) are essential implementation the video standard, and Motorola alleges that capable products including Xbox , Windows , Media Player, and Internet Explorer infringe those patents. May , the court issued injunction relating all capable Microsoft products Germany, which Microsoft appealed. Orders the litigation pending Seattle, Washington described above enjoin Motorola from enforcing the German injunction. \x95 Motorola asserts that one patent covers certain syncing functionality the ActiveSync protocol employed Windows Phone , Outlook Mobile, Hotmail Mobile, Exchange Online, Exchange Server, and Hotmail Server. April , the court stayed the case pending the outcome parallel proceedings which Microsoft seeking invalidate the patent. November , the Federal Patent Court invalidated the originally issued patent claims, but ruled that certain new amended claims were patentable. Both Motorola and Microsoft appealed. June , the court reopened infringement proceedings and scheduled hearing November . \x95 Microsoft may able mitigate the adverse impact any injunction altering its products avoid Motorola\x92 infringement claims. \x95 Any damages would determined separate proceedings. PART Item lawsuits Microsoft filed Germany and , Microsoft asserts that Motorola Android devices infringe Microsoft patents and seeking damages and injunctions. , regional courts Germany issued injunctions three the Microsoft patents, which Motorola appealed. One judgment has been affirmed appeal (and Motorola has further appealed), and the other two appeals are pending. actions filed separately Motorola invalidate these patents, the Federal Patent Court and held the Microsoft patents invalid, and Microsoft appealed. For the cases which Microsoft obtained injunctions, Motorola were prevail following all appeals, Motorola could have claim against Microsoft for damages caused erroneously granted injunction. United Kingdom December , Microsoft filed action against Motorola the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, London, England, seeking revoke the part the European patent asserted Motorola Germany against the ActiveSync protocol. February , Motorola counterclaimed alleging infringement the patent and seeking damages and injunction. December , the court ruled that Motorola\x92 patent invalid. The court also ruled that the patent, even valid, would licensed under the grant-back clause Google\x92 ActiveSync license. Motorola appealed and the appeals court affirmed the lower court\x92 ruling Microsoft\x92 favor November . Motorola has exhausted all appeals and the rulings Microsoft\x92 favor are final. IPCom patent litigation IPCom GmbH & . German company that holds large portfolio mobile technology related patents spanning about patent families and addressing broad range cellular technologies. IPCom has asserted these patents litigation against Nokia and many the leading cell phone companies and operators. Three the infringement suits against Nokia (now assumed Microsoft through the NDS acquisition) are still pending courts Germany, England, and Italy. These courts have held number IPCom\x92 patents were invalid not infringed. continue contest the validity infringement the patents remaining dispute. Interdigital patent litigation InterDigital Technology Corporation and InterDigital Communications Corporation (collectively, \x93IDT\x94) filed four patent infringement cases against Nokia the ITC and . District Court for the District Delaware between and . are being substituted for Nokia these cases. Each case includes other -defendants because most the patents issue allegedly relate and wireless communications standards essential functionality. The suite cases include three ITC investigations where IDT seeking order excluding importation and phones into the . and one active case . District Court Delaware seeking injunction and damages. European copyright levies have assumed from Nokia all potential liability due Nokia\x92 alleged failure pay \x93private copying levies\x94 various European countries based upon sale memory cards and mobile phones that incorporate blank memory. The levies are based upon Directive establishing right for end users make copies copyrighted works for personal private use, but also allowing the collection levies based upon sales blank media recording devices compensate copyright holders for private copying. Various collecting societies countries initiated litigation against Nokia, stating that Nokia must pay levies not only based upon sales blank memory cards, but also phones that include blank memory for data storage the phones, regardless actual usage that memory. The most significant cases against Nokia are pending Germany and Austria, due both high volume sales and high levy amounts sought these countries. are litigating against certain collecting societies the basis that the levy schemes exceed what the Directive and European Court Justice decisions permit. Other patent and intellectual property claims addition these cases, there are approximately other patent infringement cases pending against Microsoft. PART Item Product-Related Litigation . cell phone litigation Nokia, along with other handset manufacturers and network operators, defendant lawsuits filed the Superior Court for the District Columbia individual plaintiffs who allege that radio emissions from cellular handsets caused their brain tumors and other adverse health effects. have assumed responsibility for these claims part the NDS acquisition. Nine these cases were filed and are consolidated for certain pre-trial proceedings; the remaining ten cases are stayed. separate decision, the Court Appeals for the District Columbia held that adverse health effect claims arising from the use cellular handsets that operate within the . Federal Communications Commission radio frequency emission guidelines (\x93FCC Guidelines\x94) are pre-empted federal law. The plaintiffs allege that their handsets either operated outside the FCC Guidelines were manufactured before the FCC Guidelines went into effect. The lawsuits also allege industry-wide conspiracy manipulate the science and testing around emission guidelines. September , defendants the consolidated cases moved exclude plaintiffs\x92 expert evidence general causation the basis flawed scientific methodologies. The motion was heard December and January . March , defendants filed separate motion preclude plaintiffs\x92 general causation testimony the ground that pre-empted federal law because the experts challenge the safety all cellular handsets, including those that comply with the FCC Guidelines. Both motions are pending. Canadian cell phone class action Nokia, along with other handset manufacturers and network operators, defendant class action lawsuit filed the Supreme Court British Columbia purported class Canadians who have used cellular phones for least hours, including subclass users with brain tumors. Microsoft was served with the complaint June . The litigation not yet active several defendants remain served. Other also are subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. Although management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our consolidated financial statements, these matters are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. June , , had accrued aggregate liabilities $ million other current liabilities and $ million other long-term liabilities for all our legal matters that were contingencies that date. While intend defend these matters vigorously, adverse outcomes that estimate could reach approximately $ billion aggregate beyond recorded amounts are reasonably possible. Were unfavorable final outcomes occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our consolidated financial statements for the period which the effects become reasonably estimable. Substantially all changes from the prior quarter these accruals and estimates are attributable matters involving Nokia that assumed result the NDS acquisition. NOTE \x97 STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares Outstanding Shares common stock outstanding were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , PART Item Share Repurchases September , , our Board Directors approved new share repurchase program authorizing $ billion share repurchases. The share repurchase program became effective October , , has expiration date, and may suspended discontinued any time without notice. This new share repurchase program replaced the share repurchase program that was announced September , and expired September , . June , , $ billion remained our $ billion share repurchase program. All repurchases were made using cash resources. repurchased the following shares common stock under the above-described repurchase plans: ( millions) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Year Ended June , ( ) ( ) ( ) First quarter $ , $ , $ , Second quarter , , , Third quarter , , , Fourth quarter , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) the million shares repurchased fiscal year , million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the share repurchase program approved our Board Directors September , and million shares were repurchased for $ billion under the share repurchase program that was announced September , and expired September , . ( ) All shares repurchased fiscal years and were repurchased under the repurchase plan that was announced September , and expired September , . The above table excludes shares repurchased settle statutory employee tax withholding related the vesting stock awards. Dividends fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , November , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , The dividend declared June , will paid after the filing date this Form - and was included other current liabilities June , . fiscal year , our Board Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date ( millions) September , $ November , $ , December , November , $ February , $ , March , March , $ May , $ , June , June , $ August , $ , September , The dividend declared June , was included other current liabilities June , . PART Item NOTE \x97 ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The following table summarizes the changes accumulated other comprehensive income component: ( millions) Year Ended June , Derivatives Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balance, beginning period $ $ $ ( ) Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $ , $ and $ Reclassification adjustments for losses (gains) included revenue ( ) ( ) Tax expense (benefit) included provision for income taxes ( ) Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income ( ) ( ) Net current period other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income balance, end period $ $ $ Investments Accumulated other comprehensive income balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Unrealized gains (losses), net tax effects $ , , $ and $( ) , ( ) Reclassification adjustments for gains included other income (expense) ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax expense included provision for income taxes Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income ( ) ( ) ( ) Net current period other comprehensive income (loss) , ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income balance, end period $ , $ , $ , Translation Adjustments and Other Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balance, beginning period $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Translation adjustments and other, net tax effects $ , $( ) and $( ) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss balance, end period $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income, end period $ , $ , $ , NOTE \x97 EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS grant stock-based compensation directors and employees. June , , aggregate million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plans, covering stock options, stock awards, and leadership stock awards. Awards that expire are canceled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. issue new shares Microsoft common stock satisfy exercises and vesting awards granted under all our stock plans. Stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Stock-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , Income tax benefits related stock-based compensation $ $ $ Stock Plans Stock awards Stock awards (\x93SAs\x94) are grants that entitle the holder shares Microsoft common stock the award vests. SAs generally vest over four five-year period. PART Item Executive incentive plan Under the Executive Incentive Plan (\x93EIP\x94), the Compensation Committee awards performance-based compensation comprising both cash and SAs executive officers and certain senior executives. For executive officers, their awards are based aggregate incentive pool equal percentage consolidated operating income. For fiscal years , , and , the pool was %, %, and % operating income, respectively. The SAs vest ratably August each the four years following the grant date. The final cash awards will determined after each performance period based individual and business performance. Activity for all stock plans The fair value each award was estimated the date grant using the following assumptions: Year Ended June , Dividends per share (quarterly amounts) $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Interest rates range % - % % - % % - % During fiscal year , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: Shares Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value ( millions) Stock Awards Nonvested balance, beginning year $ Granted ( ) $ Vested ( ) $ Forfeited ( ) $ Nonvested balance, end year $ ( ) Includes four million shares stock replacement awards related the acquisition NDS. The weighted average grant-date fair value was $ . June , , there was approximately $ billion total unrecognized compensation costs related stock awards. These costs are expected recognized over weighted average period years. During fiscal years and , the following activity occurred under our stock plans: ( millions, except fair values) Stock Awards Awards granted Weighted average grant-date fair value $ $ Total vest-date fair value stock awards vested was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, for fiscal years , , and , respectively. PART Item Employee Stock Purchase Plan have employee stock purchase plan (the \x93Plan\x94) for all eligible employees. Shares our common stock may purchased employees three-month intervals % the fair market value the last trading day each three-month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. Employees purchased the following shares during the periods presented: (Shares millions) Year Ended June , Shares purchased Average price per share $ $ $ June , , million shares our common stock were reserved for future issuance through the Plan. Savings Plan have savings plan the . that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar the first % participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution the lesser % participant\x92 earnings % the IRS compensation limit for the given year. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively, and were expensed contributed. Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. NOTE \x97 SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA its operation the business, management, including our chief operating decision maker, the company\x92 Chief Executive Officer, reviews certain financial information, including segmented internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segment information this note reported that basis. During the first quarter fiscal year , changed our organizational structure part our transformation devices and services company. result, information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes allocating resources and assessing performance changed. Therefore, beginning fiscal year , reported our financial performance based our new segments; & Licensing, & Hardware, & Other, Commercial Licensing, and Commercial Other. have recast certain prior period amounts conform the way internally managed and monitored segment performance during fiscal year . April , , acquired substantially all NDS. See Note \x96 Business Combinations for additional details. NDS has been included our consolidated results operations starting the acquisition date. report the financial performance the acquired business our new Phone Hardware segment. Prior the acquisition NDS, financial results associated with our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia were reflected our & Licensing segment. The contractual relationship with Nokia related those initiatives terminated conjunction with the acquisition. With the creation the new Phone Hardware segment, the & Hardware segment was renamed Computing and Gaming Hardware the fourth quarter fiscal year . Our reportable segments are described below. PART Item Devices and Consumer Our & segments develop, manufacture, market, and support products and services designed entertain and connect people, increase personal productivity, help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. Our & segments are: \x95 & Licensing , comprising: Windows, including all OEM licensing (\x93Windows OEM\x94) and other non-volume licensing and academic volume licensing the Windows operating system and related software; non-volume licensing Microsoft Office, comprising the core Office product set, for consumers (\x93Office Consumer\x94); Windows Phone operating system, including related patent licensing; and certain other patent licensing revenue; \x95 Computing and Gaming Hardware , comprising: Xbox gaming and entertainment consoles and accessories, second-party and third-party video game royalties, and Xbox Live subscriptions (\x93Xbox Platform\x94); Surface devices and accessories; and Microsoft accessories; \x95 Phone Hardware , comprising: Lumia Smartphones and other non-Lumia phones, beginning with the acquisition NDS; and \x95 & Other , comprising: Resale, including Windows Store, Xbox Live transactions, and Windows Phone Store; search advertising; display advertising; Office Consumer, comprising Office Home and Office Personal; Studios, comprising first-party video games; our retail stores; and certain other consumer products and services not included the categories above. Commercial Our Commercial segments develop, market, and support software and services designed increase individual, team, and organizational productivity and efficiency, including simplifying everyday tasks through seamless operations across the user\x92 hardware and software. Our Commercial segments are: \x95 Commercial Licensing , comprising: server products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (\x93CALs\x94); Windows Embedded; volume licensing the Windows operating system, excluding academic (\x93Windows Commercial\x94); Microsoft Office for business, including Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and related CALs (\x93Office Commercial\x94); Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, excluding Dynamics CRM Online; and Skype; and \x95 Commercial Other , comprising: Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services; Commercial Cloud, comprising Office Commercial, other Microsoft Office online offerings, Dynamics CRM Online, and Microsoft Azure; and certain other commercial products and online services not included the categories above. Revenue and cost revenue are generally directly attributed our segments. Certain revenue contracts are allocated among the segments based the relative value the underlying products and services. Cost revenue directly charged our hardware segments. For the remaining segments, cost revenue directly charged most cases and allocated certain cases, generally using relative revenue methodology. not allocate operating expenses our segments. Rather, allocate them our two segment groups, Devices and Consumer and Commercial. Due the integrated structure our business, allocations expenses are made certain cases incent cross-collaboration among our segment groups that segment group not solely burdened the cost mutually beneficial activity seek deliver seamless experiences across devices, whether -premises the cloud. Operating expenses are attributed our segment groups follows: \x95 Sales and marketing expenses are primarily recorded directly each segment group based identified customer segment. \x95 Research and development expenses are primarily shared across the segment groups based relative gross margin but are mapped directly certain cases where the value the expense only accrues that segment group. PART Item \x95 General and administrative expenses are primarily allocated based relative gross margin. Certain corporate-level activity not allocated our segment groups, including costs : legal, including expenses, settlements, and fines; information technology; human resources; finance; excise taxes; and integration and restructuring costs. Segment revenue and gross margin were follows during the periods presented: ( millions) Year Ended June , Revenue Devices and Consumer Licensing $ , $ , $ , Hardware: Computing and Gaming Hardware , , , Phone Hardware , Total & Hardware , , , Other , , , Total Devices and Consumer , , , Commercial Licensing , , , Other , , , Total Commercial , , , Corporate and Other ( ) ( ) Total revenue $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Year Ended June , Gross margin Devices and Consumer Licensing $ , $ , $ , Hardware: Computing and Gaming Hardware , Phone Hardware Total & Hardware , Other , , , Total Devices and Consumer , , , Commercial Licensing , , , Other , Total Commercial , , , Corporate and Other ( ) ( ) Total gross margin $ , $ , $ , Following operating expenses segment group. discussed above, not allocate operating expenses below cost revenue our segments. ( millions) Year Ended June , Devices and Consumer $ , $ , $ , Commercial , , , Corporate and Other , , , Total operating expenses $ , $ , $ , PART Item Following operating income (loss) segment group. ( millions) Year Ended June , Devices and Consumer $ , $ , $ , Commercial , , , Corporate and Other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , Corporate and Other operating income includes adjustments conform our internal accounting policies . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, and depreciation. Corporate and Other activity was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Corporate ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Other (adjustments . GAAP): Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) ( ) ( ) Cost revenue reconciling amounts ( ) ( ) ( ) Operating expenses reconciling amounts ( ) ( ) Total Corporate and Other $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate presented the basis our internal accounting policies and excludes the adjustments . GAAP that are presented separately those line items. ( ) Revenue reconciling amounts for fiscal year included net $ million revenue deferrals related sales certain devices bundled with other products and services (\x93Bundled Offerings\x94). Revenue reconciling amounts for fiscal years and included the deferral and subsequent recognition, respectively, $ million revenue related the Windows Upgrade Offer. sales individual customer country other than the United States accounted for more than % fiscal year , , revenue. Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which our customers are located, was follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes billings OEMs and certain multinational organizations because the nature these businesses and the impracticability determining the geographic source the revenue. PART Item Revenue from external customers, classified significant product and service offerings were follows: ( millions) Year Ended June , Microsoft Office system $ , $ , $ , Windows operating system , , , Server products and tools , , , Xbox Platform , , , Consulting and product support services , , , Advertising , , , Phone , Surface , Other , , , Total $ , $ , $ , Our total Commercial Cloud revenue was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion fiscal years , , and , respectively. These amounts are included their respective product categories the table above. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation charged the respective segment. impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Long-lived assets, excluding financial instruments and tax assets, classified the location the controlling statutory company and with countries over % the total shown separately, were follows: ( millions) June , United States $ , $ , $ , Finland , Luxembourg , , , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , NOTE \x97 QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) ( millions, except per share amounts) Quarter Ended September December March June ( ) Total ( ) Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin , , , , , Net income , , , , ( ) , ( ) Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) Fiscal Year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin , , , , , Net income , , , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) NDS has been included our consolidated results operations starting April , , the date acquisition. ( ) Includes tax provision adjustment recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year related adjustments prior years\x92 liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing which decreased net income $ million and diluted earnings per share $ . PART Item ( ) Includes charge related fine imposed the European Commission March which decreased net income $ million (\x80 million) and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes charge for Surface inventory adjustments recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , which decreased net income $ million and diluted earnings per share $ . ( ) Includes charge related fine imposed the European Commission March which decreased net income $ million (\x80 million) and diluted earnings per share $ . Also includes charge for Surface inventory adjustments recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year , which decreased net income $ million and diluted earnings per share $ . NOTE \x97 SUBSEQUENT EVENT July , , announced restructuring plan simplify our organization and align the recently acquired NDS business with our company\x92 overall strategy. will eliminate , positions over the next year, including , professional and factory positions related the acquisition NDS. expect incur pre-tax charges approximately $ billion $ billion fiscal year . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation Redmond, Washington have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures required Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Our assessment , and conclusion , the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls Nokia Corporation\x92 Devices and Services business, acquired April , , which included our consolidated financial statements and represented approximately % our total assets June , , and % our total revenues for the year ended June , . Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting June , ; their report included Item . PART Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation Redmond, Washington have audited the internal control over financial reporting Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. described the Report Management Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting Nokia Corporation\x92 Devices and Services business, acquired April , and whose financial statements constitute % total assets June , and % total revenues for the year ended June , . Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting Nokia Corporation\x92 Devices and Services business. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , , the Company and our report dated July , , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington July , PART , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Effective July , , amended our Bylaws establish the size the Board Directors range members, and designate the chief executive officer the sole officer with authority appoint corporate officers. The amended Bylaws are filed Exhibit this Report. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this Form - . Information about our directors may found under the caption \x93Our director nominees\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held December , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). Information about our Audit Committee may found under the caption \x93Board committees\x94 the Proxy Statement. That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial ownership reporting compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com investor MSFinanceCode. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature the amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Director compensation,\x94 \x93Named executive officer compensation,\x94 \x93Compensation Committee interlocks and insider participation,\x94 and \x93Compensation Committee report\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information regarding beneficial ownership principal shareholders, directors, and management\x94 and \x93Equity compensation plan information\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth the Proxy Statement under the captions \x93Director independence\x94 and \x93Certain relationships and related transactions\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the headings \x93Fees billed Deloitte & Touche\x94 and \x93Policy Audit Committee pre-approval audit and permissible non-audit services independent auditor\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PART Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Form - , indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. Index Financial Statements Page ( ) Exhibit Listing Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation - Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Form Indenture between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee (\x93Base Indenture\x94) -ASR Form First Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Base Indenture - Form Second Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated September , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Third Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated February , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - Fourth Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated November , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - Fifth Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , dated May , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - Sixth Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - Seventh Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due and % Notes due , dated December , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Eighth Supplemental Indenture for % Notes due , % Notes due , and % Notes due , dated December , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee, the Indenture, dated May , , between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, ., Trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan - * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Form Stock Option Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors - Officers\x92 Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee - Amended and Restated Indemnification Trust Agreement between Microsoft Corporation and The Bank New York Mellon Trust Company, trustee - * Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - * Executive Officer Incentive Plan - * Form Executive Incentive Plan Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan - * Resignation Agreement and Full and Final Release Claims between Microsoft Corporation and Steven Sinofsky - Stock Award Agreement under the Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan (Service-Based) - Senior Executive Severance Benefit Plan - PART Item Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Filed Herewith Form Period Ending Exhibit Filing Date Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ** Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ** Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act INS XBRL Instance Document SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement ** Furnished, not filed ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}