{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company\x92 products and services include iPhone ® , iPad ® , Mac ® , iPod ® , Apple ® , portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and Mac ® operating systems, iCloud ® , and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store ® , App Store , iBookstore , and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals, through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses (\x93SMB\x94), and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. The Company California corporation established . Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best user experience its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, and services. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative design. The Company believes continual investment research and development and marketing and advertising critical the development and sale innovative products and technologies. part its strategy, the Company continues expand its platform for the discovery and delivery third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. part the iTunes Store, the Company\x92 App Store and iBookstore allow customers discover and download applications and books through either Mac Windows-based computer through \x93iOS devices,\x94 namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch ® . January , the Company opened the Mac App Store allow customers easily discover, download and install applications for their Macs. The Company also supports community for the development third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company\x92 offerings. The Company\x92 strategy also includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. Consumer and Small and Mid-Sized Business The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company\x92 products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. The Company sells many its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers and businesses through its retail and online stores. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level product expertise, integration and support services. The Company\x92 retail stores are typically located high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. operating its own stores and locating them desirable high-traffic locations, the Company better positioned ensure high quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing the Company\x92 products and related solutions. that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes accommodate market-specific demands. The Company believes providing direct contact with its customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training. The stores offer wide selection third-party hardware, software, and other accessories and peripherals that complement the Company\x92 products. Education Throughout its history, the Company has been committed delivering solutions help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement and has designed range products, services and programs address the needs education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution and accessibility education related materials through iTunes \x99, platform that allows students and teachers share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its online and retail stores. Enterprise and Government The Company also sells its hardware and software products enterprise and government customers each its geographic segments. The Company\x92 products are deployed these markets because their power, productivity, ease use and the simplicity seamless integration into information technology environments. The Company\x92 products are compatible with thousands third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment custom applications well remote device administration. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company has determined that its reportable operating segments, which are generally based the nature and location its customers, consist the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail. The results the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments not include the results the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores worldwide. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Products The Company offers range mobile communication and media devices, personal computing products, and portable digital music players, well variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and third-party hardware and software products. addition, the Company offers its own software products, including iOS, the Company\x92 proprietary mobile operating system; Mac , the Company\x92 proprietary operating system software for the Mac; server software and application software for consumer, SMB, and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company\x92 primary products are discussed below. iPhone iPhone combines mobile phone, iPod, and Internet communications device single handheld product. Based the Company\x92 Multi-Touch\x99 user interface, iPhone features desktop-class email, web browsing, searching, and maps and compatible with both Macs and Windows-based computers. iPhone automatically syncs content from users\x92 iTunes libraries, well contacts, bookmarks, and email accounts. iPhone allows customers access the iTunes Store download audio and video files, well variety other digital content and applications. October , the Company launched iPhone , its latest version iPhone, which includes Siri\x99, voice activated intelligent assistant. addition the Company\x92 own iPhone accessories, third-party iPhone compatible accessories are available through the Company\x92 online and retail stores and from third parties. iPad iPad multi-purpose mobile device for browsing the web, reading and sending email, viewing photos, watching videos, listening music, playing games, reading -books and more. iPad based the Company\x92 Multi-Touch technology and allows customers connect with their applications and content more interactive way. iPad allows customers access the iTunes Store download audio and video files, well variety other digital content and applications. March , the Company introduced iPad , its second-generation iPad. addition the Company\x92 own iPad accessories, third-party iPad compatible accessories are available through the Company\x92 online and retail stores and from third parties. Mac Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and portable computers, related devices and peripherals, and third-party hardware products. The Company\x92 Mac desktop and portable systems feature Intel microprocessors, the Mac Lion operating system and the iLife ® suite software for creation and management digital photography, music, movies, DVDs and websites. The Company\x92 desktop computers include iMac ® , Mac Pro and Mac mini. The iMac desktop computer has all- -one design that incorporates display, processor, graphics card, storage, memory and other components inside single enclosure. The Mac Pro desktop computer targeted business and professional customers and designed meet the performance, expansion, and networking needs the most demanding Mac user. The Mac mini desktop computer compact enclosure. The Company\x92 portable computers include MacBook ® Pro and MacBook Air ® . MacBook Pro portable computer designed for professionals and consumers. MacBook Air ultra-slim portable computer designed for professionals and consumers. iPod The Company\x92 iPod line portable digital music and media players includes iPod touch, iPod nano ® , iPod shuffle ® and iPod classic ® . All iPods work with iTunes. addition the Company\x92 own iPod accessories, third-party iPod compatible accessories are available, through the Company\x92 online and retail stores from third parties. The iPod touch, based iOS, flash-memory-based iPod with widescreen display and Multi-Touch user interface. iPod touch allows customers access the iTunes Store download audio and video content, well variety digital applications. The iPod nano flash-memory-based iPod that features the Company\x92 Multi-Touch interface allowing customers navigate their music collection tapping swiping the display. The iPod nano features polished aluminum and glass enclosure with built- clip. The iPod shuffle flash-memory-based iPod that features clickable control pad control music playback and VoiceOver technology enabling customers hear song titles, artists and playlist names. The iPod classic hard-drive based portable digital music and video player. iTunes ® iTunes application that supports the purchase, download, organization and playback digital audio and video files and available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. iTunes the latest version iTunes and features AirPlay ® wireless music playback, Genius Mixes, Home Sharing, and improved syncing functionality with iOS devices. iTunes integrated with the iTunes Store ® , service that allows customers discover, purchase, rent, and download digital content and applications. The iTunes Store includes the App Store\x99 and iBookstore. The App Store allows customers discover and download applications, and the iBookstore features electronic books from major and independent publishers and allows customers preview and buy books for their iOS devices. Customers can access the App Store through either Mac Windows-based computer through iOS device. The iBookstore accessed through the iBooks ® application iOS device. Mac App Store January , the Company opened the Mac App Store allowing customers discover, download and install applications for their Macs. The Mac App Store offers applications education, games, graphics and design, lifestyle, productivity, utilities and other categories. The Company\x92 Mac operating system software and iLife and iWork ® application software are also available the Mac App Store. iCloud October , the Company launched iCloud, its new cloud service, which stores music, photos, applications, contacts, calendars, and documents and wirelessly pushes them multiple iOS devices, Macs and Windows-based computers. iCloud\x92 features include iTunes the Cloud, Photo Stream, Documents the Cloud, Contacts, Calendar, Mail, automatic downloads and purchase history for applications and iBooks, and iCloud Backup. Users can sign for free access iCloud using device running iOS Mac running Mac Lion. Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for consumer, SMB, education, enterprise and government customers, including the Company\x92 proprietary iOS and Mac operating system software; server software; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. Operating System Software iOS iOS the Company\x92 mobile operating system that serves the foundation for iOS devices. October , the Company released iOS , which supports iCloud and includes new features such Notification Center, way view and manage notifications one place; iMessage\x99, messaging service that allows users send text messages, photos and videos between iOS devices; and Newsstand, way purchase and organize newspaper and magazine subscriptions. Mac Mac , the operating system for Macs, built open-source UNIX-based foundation. Mac Lion the eighth major release Mac and became available July . Mac Lion includes support for new Multi-Touch gestures; iCloud integration; system-wide support for full screen applications; Mission Control\x99, way view everything running user\x92 Mac; the Mac App Store; Launchpad\x99, new home for user\x92 applications; and redesigned Mail application. Application Software iLife iLife \x92 the latest version the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite included with all Mac computers. iLife features iPhoto ® , iMovie ® , iDVD ® , GarageBand ® , and iWeb\x99. iPhoto the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital photo application and iMovie the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital video editing software application. iDVD the Company\x92 consumer-oriented software application that enables customers turn iMovie files, QuickTime files, and digital pictures into interactive DVDs. GarageBand the Company\x92 consumer-oriented music creation application that allows customers play, record and create music. iWeb allows customers create online photo albums, blogs and podcasts, and customize websites using editing tools. iWork iWork \x92 the latest version the Company\x92 integrated productivity suite designed help users create, present, and publish documents, presentations, and spreadsheets. iWork \x92 includes Pages ® \x92 for word processing and page layout, Keynote ® \x92 for presentations, and Numbers ® \x92 for spreadsheets. The Company also has Multi-Touch version each iWork application designed specifically for use iOS devices. Other Application Software The Company also sells various other application software, including Final Cut Pro ® , Logic Studio ® , Logic ® Express , Logic Studio ® Pro, and its FileMaker ® Pro database software. Displays & Peripheral Products The Company manufactures the Apple LED Cinema Display\x99 and Thunderbolt Display. The Company also sells variety Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible and iOS-compatible peripheral products, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various other computing products and supplies. Apple Apple allows customers watch movies and television shows their high definition television. Content from iTunes, Netflix, YouTube, and Flickr well music, photos, videos, and podcasts from Mac Windows-based computer can also wirelessly streamed television through Apple . With the release iCloud October , content purchased Apple can -downloaded iOS devices. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for the Company\x92 customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan (\x93APP\x94). APP fee-based service that typically includes two three years phone support and hardware repairs and dedicated web-based support resources. Markets and Distribution The Company\x92 customers are primarily the consumer, SMB, and education, enterprise and government markets. The Company uses variety direct and indirect distribution channels, such its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware and software integration, and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors and providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues expand and improve its distribution capabilities expanding the number its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level integration and support services, and product expertise. single customer accounted for more than % net sales . One the Company\x92 customers accounted for % net sales . Competition The markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive and the Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. These markets are characterized frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and other digital electronic devices. The Company\x92 competitors who sell mobile devices and personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. Principal competitive factors important the Company include price, product features, relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, strong third-party software and peripherals ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related mobile communication and media devices. These industries are highly competitive and include several large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition these industries intensify significantly competitors attempt imitate some the features the Company\x92 products and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These industries are characterized aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company\x92 digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company believes offers superior innovation and integration the entire solution including the hardware (iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod), software (iTunes), and distribution digital content and applications (iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore and Mac App Store). Some the Company\x92 current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\x92 offerings. The Company\x92 future financial condition and operating results depend the Company\x92 ability continue develop and offer new innovative products and services each the markets competes . Supply Components Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, number components are currently obtained from single limited sources, which subjects the Company significant supply and pricing risks. Many components are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. addition, the Company has entered into various agreements for the supply components; however there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company and other participants the mobile communication and media device, and personal computer industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company also uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers concentrated the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners primarily located Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturer for many the Company\x92 products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods days. Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new technologies enhance existing products and expand the range its product offerings through research and development, licensing intellectual property and acquisition third-party businesses and technology. Total research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod devices, peripherals, software and services. The Company has registered has applied for trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect inventions arising from its research and development, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated large portfolio issued patents the . and worldwide. The Company holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single patent copyright solely responsible for protecting the Company\x92 products. The Company believes the duration its patents adequate relative the expected lives its products. Due the fast pace innovation and product development, the Company\x92 products are often obsolete before the patents related them expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related them are even granted. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, based upon past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the industries which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The . represents the Company\x92 largest geographic market. Approximately % the Company\x92 net sales came from sales customers inside the . Final assembly the Company\x92 products currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Ireland, and outsourcing partners, primarily located Asia. The supply and manufacture number components performed sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe. Single-sourced outsourcing partners Asia perform final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item and Item this Form - and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales its first fiscal quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due increased holiday seasonal demand. This historical pattern should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers limited parts and labor warranty most its hardware products. The basic warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the original end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase the APP, which extends service coverage many the Company\x92 hardware products most its major markets. Backlog the Company\x92 experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions customers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and additional , full-time equivalent temporary employees and contractors. Available Information The Company\x92 Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (\x93Exchange Act\x94), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (the \x93SEC\x94). Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge the Company\x92 website www apple com investor when such reports are available the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\x92 Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov . The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\x92 references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. Global economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company\x92 operations and performance depend significantly worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses risk consumers and businesses postpone spending response tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and declines income asset values, which could have material negative effect demand for the Company\x92 products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company\x92 expectations because the Company generally raises prices goods and services sold outside the . offset the effect strengthening the . dollar. Other factors that could influence demand include increases fuel and other energy costs, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment, labor and healthcare costs, access credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company\x92 products and services and the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. the event financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, there could new incremental tightening the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. This could have number effects the Company\x92 business, including the insolvency financial instability outsourcing partners suppliers their inability obtain credit finance development and manufacture products resulting product delays; inability customers, including channel partners, obtain credit finance purchases the Company\x92 products; and failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending gains losses realized the sale exchange financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes fair value derivative instruments. Increased volatility the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk the actual amounts realized the future the Company\x92 financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned them. Global markets for the Company\x92 products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change. the Company unable compete effectively these markets, its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 products and services compete highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price cutting, with resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction innovative new products and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments research and development and such, the Company currently holds significant number patents and copyrights and has registered and has applied register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. contrast, many the Company\x92 competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins other companies infringe the Company\x92 intellectual property, the Company\x92 ability maintain competitive advantage could negatively affected and its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. Additionally, the Company faces significant price competition competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt imitate the Company\x92 product features and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company has entered the mobile communications and media device markets, and some its competitors these markets have greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and lower cost structure, they may able provide such products and services little profit even loss. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\x92 approach providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results depend substantially the Company\x92 ability continually improve iOS and iOS devices order maintain their functional and design advantages. The Company the only authorized maker hardware using Mac , which has minority market share the personal computer market. This market dominated computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces significant number competitors, many which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer base. Consolidation this market has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. increasing number Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results depend substantially its ability continually improve the Mac platform maintain its functional and design advantages. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success new product introductions depends number factors including but not limited timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions its financial condition and operating results. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its provisions related inventory, other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. Such charges could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, open orders and, where appropriate, inventory component prepayments, each case based projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods days. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient amounts components products, not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results have been the past and could the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain components sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains components from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many components that are available from multiple sources are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into various agreements for the supply components; there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. The follow- effects from the credit crisis the Company\x92 suppliers, referred \x93 Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company \x94 above, also could affect the Company\x92 ability obtain components. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company expects experience decreases its gross margin percentage future periods, compared levels achieved during , largely due higher mix new and innovative products with flat reduced pricing that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value customers, and potential future component cost and other cost increases. The Company and other participants the mobile communication and media device, and personal computer industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries. The Company\x92 new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. the supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided outsourcing partners, many whom are located outside the . Substantially all the Company\x92 manufacturing performed whole part few outsourcing partners primarily located Asia. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity products services, the Company\x92 flexibility respond changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects. The Company also relies its partners adhere the Company\x92 supplier code conduct. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with outsourcing partners otherwise, material violations the supplier code conduct, could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 reputation, financial condition and operating results. The supply and manufacture many critical components performed sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe. Single-sourced outsourcing partners Asia perform final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products. manufacturing logistics these locations disrupted for any reason including, but not limited , natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, military actions economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company relies third-party intellectual property and digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. Many the Company\x92 products include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties. Based past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally could obtained reasonable terms. There however assurance that the necessary licenses could obtained acceptable terms all. the Company unable obtain renew critical licenses reasonable terms, its financial condition and operating results may materially adversely affected. The Company also contracts with third parties offer their digital content through the iTunes Store. The licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers currently the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company\x92 access , increase the cost , such content. the Company unable continue offer wide variety content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results may materially adversely affected. Many third-party content providers require the Company provide digital rights management (\x93DRM\x94) and other security solutions. these requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose legislation that would force the Company license its DRM, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and also could affect arrangements with the Company\x92 content providers. The Company\x92 future results could materially adversely affected found have infringed intellectual property rights. Technology companies, including many the Company\x92 competitors, frequently enter into litigation based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights. addition, patent holding companies seek monetize patents they have purchased otherwise obtained. the Company has grown, the intellectual property rights claims against have increased and may continue increase. particular, the Company\x92 cellular enabled products compete with mobile communication and media device companies that hold significant patent portfolios, and the number patent claims against the Company has significantly increased. The Company vigorously defending infringement actions courts number . jurisdictions and before the . International Trade Commission, well internationally Europe and Asia. The plaintiffs these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless the scope validity such patents the merits any patent claims potential actual litigants, the Company may have engage protracted litigation. the Company found infringe one more patents, may required pay substantial damages. there temporary permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected, regardless whether can develop non-infringing technology. certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements, although assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase the Company\x92 operating expenses. management\x92 opinion there not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies, including matters related infringement intellectual property rights. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company the same reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 future performance depends part support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products depend part the availability third-party software applications and services. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company\x92 products. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company\x92 products, customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. With respect its Mac products, the Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services depends part the developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products compared Windows-based products. This analysis may based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such applications and services. the Company\x92 minority share the global personal computer market causes developers question the Company\x92 prospects, developers could less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company\x92 products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. With respect iOS devices, the Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications, which are distributed through single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence multiple distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance third-party applications the Company\x92 customers, thereby causing developers reduce curtail development for the iOS platform. addition, iOS devices are subject rapid technological change, and, third-party developers are unable choose not keep with this pace change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result dissatisfied customers. with applications for the Company\x92 Mac products, the availability and development these applications also depend developers\x92 perceptions and analysis the relative benefits developing software for the Company\x92 products rather than its competitors\x92 products, including devices that use competing platforms. developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company\x92 devices may suffer. The Company\x92 future operating performance depends the performance distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and value-added resellers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many its products and third-party products most its major markets directly education customers, cellular network carriers\x92 distribution channels, resellers and consumers through its online and retail stores. Carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone typically subsidize users\x92 purchase the device. There assurance that such subsidies will continued all the same amounts upon renewal the Company\x92 agreements with these carriers agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. Many resellers have narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected the past weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their business interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Such perception could discourage resellers from investing resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution those products. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require substantial investment while providing assurance return incremental revenue. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens, resellers stopped distributing the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\x92 products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company\x92 Retail business has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company\x92 retail stores have required substantial fixed investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. Due the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, decline sales the closure poor performance individual multiple stores could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Many factors unique retail operations, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, pose risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited , macro-economic factors that could have negative effect general retail activity, well the Company\x92 inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability sell third-party products adequate margins, failure manage relationships with its existing retail channel partners, more challenging environment managing retail operations outside the ., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value retail inventory, and inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, insufficient revenue offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return capital, and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not successful. They may materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 products and services experience quality problems from time time that can result decreased sales and operating margin. The Company sells complex hardware and software products and services that can contain design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the software\x92 intended operation. The Company\x92 online services may from time time experience outages, service slowdowns, errors. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware, software and services sells. Failure could result lost revenue, harm reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company subject laws and regulations worldwide, changes which could increase the Company\x92 costs and individually the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. The Company subject laws and regulations affecting its domestic and international operations number areas. These . and foreign laws and regulations affect the Company\x92 activities including, but not limited , areas labor, advertising, content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, -commerce, promotions, quality services, telecommunications, mobile, television, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health, and safety. way example, laws and regulations related mobile communications and media devices the many jurisdictions which the Company operates are extensive and subject change. Such changes could include, among others, restrictions the production, manufacture, distribution, and use the device, locking the device carrier\x92 network, mandating the use the device more than one carrier\x92 network. These devices are also subject certification and regulation governmental and standardization bodies, well cellular network carriers for use their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result additional testing requirements, product modifications, delays product shipment dates, preclude the Company from selling certain products. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may onerous and expensive, and they may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction, further increasing the cost compliance. This increases the costs doing business, and any such costs, which may rise the future result changes these laws and regulations their interpretation could individually the aggregate make the Company\x92 products and services less attractive the Company\x92 customers, delay the introduction new products one more regions, cause the Company change limit its business practices, affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can assurance that the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company\x92 policies. Any such violations could individually the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. The Company\x92 success depends largely the continued service and availability key personnel. Much the Company\x92 future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where most the Company\x92 key personnel are located. Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have strong negative effect the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company\x92 business operations are subject interruption natural disasters, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company make and deliver products its customers, including channel partners, receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could negatively affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority the Company\x92 research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are locations that could affected natural disasters. the event natural disaster, losses, significant recovery time and substantial expenditures could required resume operations and the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. Please also refer the discussion risks related the March , , Japan earthquake and tsunami and the recent flooding Thailand Part , Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations,\x94 under the subheading \x93Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and Thailand Flooding,\x94 which incorporated herein reference. The Company may subject information technology system failures network disruptions that could damage the Company\x92 reputation, business operations, and financial conditions. The Company may subject information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may caused natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts terrorism war, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, similar events disruptions. System redundancy may ineffective inadequate, and the Company\x92 disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures disruptions could prevent access the Company\x92 online stores and services, preclude retail store transactions, compromise Company customer data, and result delayed cancelled orders. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping products, delivery online services, transactions processing and financial reporting. The Company may subject breaches its information technology systems, which could damage the Company\x92 reputation, business partner and customer relationships, and access online stores and services. Such breaches could subject the Company significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. The Company\x92 business requires use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information (\x93PII\x94). This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. Although malicious attacks gain access PII affect many companies across various industries, the Company may relatively greater risk being targeted because its high profile and the amount PII managed. The Company requires user names and passwords order access its information technology systems. The Company also uses encryption and authentication technologies secure the transmission and storage data. These security measures may compromised result third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, other irregularity, and result persons obtaining unauthorized access Company data accounts. Third parties may attempt fraudulently induce employees customers into disclosing user names, passwords other sensitive information, which may turn used access the Company\x92 information technology systems. help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors accounts and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which may result the delay loss customer orders. The Company devotes significant resources network security, data encryption, and other security measures protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. The Company may experience breach its systems and may unable protect sensitive data. Moreover, computer security breach affects the Company\x92 systems results the unauthorized release PII, the Company\x92 reputation and brand could materially damaged and use the Company\x92 products and services could decrease. The Company would also exposed risk loss litigation and possible liability, which could result material adverse effect the Company\x92 business, results operations and financial condition. The Company\x92 business subject variety . and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company subject federal, state and international laws relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer PII. many cases, these laws apply not only third-party transactions, but also transfers information between the Company and its subsidiaries, and among the Company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the Company has commercial relations. Several jurisdictions have passed new laws this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue develop and may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company incur substantial costs require the Company change its business practices. Noncompliance could result penalties significant legal liability. The Company\x92 privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure data are posted its website. Any failure the Company, its suppliers other parties with whom the Company does business comply with its posted privacy policies with other federal, state international privacy-related data protection laws and regulations could result proceedings against the Company governmental entities others, which could have material adverse effect the Company\x92 business, results operations and financial condition. The Company also subject payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, information compromised, the Company could liable payment card issuers for the cost associated expenses and penalties. addition, the Company fails follow payment card industry security standards, even customer information compromised, the Company could incur significant fines experience significant increase payment card transaction costs. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate. The Company\x92 profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\x92 software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain the Company\x92 other products. Gross margins the Company\x92 hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time result product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company\x92 direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. addition, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability, may materially adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, new products, component cost increases, strengthening . dollar, price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales the first fiscal quarter compared other fiscal quarters due increased holiday seasonal demand. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time- -time during the third month quarter than does during either the first two months. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, issues with new product introductions, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners, could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 stock price subject volatility. The Company\x92 stock continues experience substantial price volatility. Additionally, the stock market whole has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock price many technology companies ways that may have been unrelated these companies\x92 operating performance. The Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. the Company fails meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. The Company derives significant portion its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with applicable . and foreign laws and regulations, such import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs doing business foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures comply with these laws and regulations, violation the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents could nevertheless occur. The consequences such violations could individually the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results also could significantly affected other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited , economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs, political instability, and changes the value the . dollar versus local currencies. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company also exposed credit and collectability risk its trade receivables with customers certain international markets. There can assurance can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non- . dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar will adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company\x92 products. some circumstances, due competition other reasons, the Company may decide not raise local prices the full extent the dollar\x92 strengthening, all, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies, while generally beneficial the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may also increase the Company\x92 cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company has used derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset any more than portion the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the market values its investment portfolio. Although the Company has not recognized any significant losses date its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, any significant declines their market values could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature its business, the Company has both domestic and international investments. Credit ratings and pricing these investments can negatively affected liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk other factors. result, the value and liquidity the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result significant impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company\x92 exposure credit and collectability risk its trade receivables higher certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. Cellular network carriers accounted for significant portion the Company\x92 trade receivables September , . The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. Two vendors accounted for significant portion the Company\x92 non-trade receivables September , . addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Unfavorable results legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary conduct business, and additional claims may arise the future. Results legal proceedings are subject significant uncertainty and, regardless the merit the claims, litigation may expensive, time-consuming, disruptive the Company\x92 operations, and distracting management. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into arrangements settle litigation. Although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company the same reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome could result significant compensatory, punitive trebled monetary damages, disgorgement revenue profits, remedial corporate measures injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Changes the Company\x92 tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation exposure additional tax liabilities could affect its future results. The Company subject taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The Company\x92 future effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. Any these changes could have material adverse effect the Company\x92 profitability. The Company also subject the continual examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned leased approximately million square feet building space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia-Pacific regions. that amount approximately million square feet was leased building space, which includes approximately million square feet related retail store space. the Company\x92 owned building space, approximately million square feet that located Cupertino, California will demolished build second corporate campus. Additionally, the Company owns total acres land various locations. September , , the Company owned manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also housed customer support call center and facilities Elk Grove, California that included warehousing and distribution operations and customer support call center. addition, the Company owned facilities for research and development and corporate functions Cupertino, California, including land for the future development the Company\x92 second corporate campus. The Company also owned data centers Newark, California and North Carolina. Outside the ., the Company owned additional facilities for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings September , , the end the annual period covered this report, the Company was subject the various legal proceedings and claims discussed below, well certain other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company the same reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. See the risk factors \x93 The Company\x92 future results could materially adversely affected found have infringed intellectual property rights. \x94 and \x93 Unfavorable results legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. \x94 Part , Item this Annual Report Form - under the heading \x93Risk Factors.\x94 The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and results operations. Apple & ATTM Antitrust Litigation (brought behalf named plaintiffs Kliegerman, Holman, Rivello, Smith, Lee, Macasaddu, Morikawa, Scotti and Sesso) This purported class action filed against the Company and & Mobility the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The Consolidated Complaint alleges that the Company and & Mobility violated the federal antitrust laws monopolizing and attempting monopolize the \x93aftermarket for voice and data services\x94 for the iPhone and that the Company monopolized and attempted monopolize the \x93aftermarket for software applications for iPhones.\x94 Plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for the class, treble damages, injunctive relief and attorneys fees. July , the Court granted part plaintiffs\x92 motion for class certification. Following favorable Supreme Court ruling for & Mobility its case against Conception, defendants have filed Motions Compel Arbitration and Decertify the Class. The Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation (formerly Charoensak . Apple Computer, Inc. and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc.); Somers . Apple Inc. These related cases have been filed January , , July , and December , the United States District Court for the Northern District California behalf purported class direct and indirect purchasers iPods and iTunes Store content, alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music and video purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power under §§ and the Sherman Act, the Cartwright Act, California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act and California monopolization law. Plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for the class, treble damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement revenues and profits and attorneys fees. Plaintiffs are also seeking DRM free versions any songs downloaded from iTunes order requiring the Company license its DRM all competing music players. The cases are currently pending. PART ', 'item 4. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company\x92 common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AAPL. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest sales prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market during each quarter the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company did not declare pay cash dividends either . The Company anticipates that for the foreseeable future will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Company Stock Performance The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Composite Index, the & Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones . Technology Index. The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company\x92 common stock, the & Composite Index, the & Computer Hardware Index, and the Dow Jones . Technology Index September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. September , September , September , September , September , September , Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & $ $ $ $ $ $ & Computer Hardware $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones Technology $ $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September , , not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands and per share amounts). Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total long-term obligations ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) The Company did not have any long-term debt during the five years ended September , . Long-term obligations exclude non-current deferred revenue. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled \x93Risk Factors\x94 above, which are incorporated herein reference. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references this report particular years quarters refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company\x92 products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, iPod, Apple , portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and Mac operating systems, iCloud, and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore, and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company committed bringing the best user experience its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, and services. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative design. part its strategy, the Company continues expand its platform for the discovery and delivery third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. part the iTunes Store, the Company\x92 App Store and iBookstore allow customers discover and download applications and books through either Mac Windows-based computer through \x93iOS devices,\x94 namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. January , the Company opened the Mac App Store allow customers easily discover, download and install applications for their Macs. The Company also supports community for the development third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company\x92 offerings. The Company\x92 strategy also includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including mobile communications and media devices with its iPhone, iPad and iPod product families; personal computers with its Mac computers; and distribution third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore, and Mac App Store. While the Company widely recognized leading innovator the markets where competes, these markets are highly competitive and subject aggressive pricing. remain competitive, the Company believes that continual investment research and development and marketing and advertising critical the development and sale innovative products and technologies. The Company\x92 research and development spending focused investing new hardware and software products, and further developing its existing products, including iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod hardware; iOS and Mac operating systems; and variety application software and online services. The Company uses variety direct and indirect distribution channels, such its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware and software integration, and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors and providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues expand and improve its distribution capabilities expanding the number its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level integration and support services, and product expertise. Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and Thailand Flooding March , , the northeast coast Japan experienced severe earthquake followed tsunami, with continuing aftershocks. These geological events have caused significant damage the region, including severe damage nuclear power plants, and have impacted Japan\x92 power and other infrastructure well its economy. Certain the Company\x92 suppliers are located Japan, and certain its other suppliers integrate components use materials manufactured Japan the production its products. the extent that component production has been affected, the Company has generally obtained alternative sources supply implemented other measures. The Company does not currently believe these events will have material impact its operations the first quarter unless conditions worsen, including, but not limited , power outages and expansion evacuation zones around the nuclear power plants. Beyond the first quarter , uncertainty exists with respect the availability electrical power, the damage nuclear power plants and the impact other infrastructure. Thus, there risk that the Company could the future experience delays other constraints obtaining key components and products and price increases related such components and products that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. addition, recent months several regions Thailand have experienced severe flooding, causing damage infrastructure, housing and factories. number the Company\x92 suppliers are located Thailand. with Japan, the extent that component production has been affected, the Company will work obtain alternative sources supply implement other measures. Based the Company\x92 current assessment the situation, does not believe this event will have material impact its operations the first quarter ; however, because the situation Thailand still evolving uncertainty remains regarding the ultimate impact this event the Company. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, valuation and impairment marketable securities, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware, and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product\x92 functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product\x92 essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94) and (iii) best estimate the selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For sales iPhone, iPad, Apple , for sales iPod touch beginning June , and for sales Mac beginning June , the Company has indicated may from time- -time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features free charge customers. June , the Company announced would begin providing various non-software services owners qualifying versions iOS devices and Mac. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for these unspecified software upgrade rights the non-software services, revenue allocated these rights and services based the Company\x92 ESPs. Amounts allocated the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services are deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated lives each these devices, which range from months. The Company\x92 process for determining ESPs involves management\x92 judgment. The Company\x92 process considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. the facts and circumstances underlying the factors considered change, including the estimated actual costs incurred provide non-software services the estimated lives the related devices, should future facts and circumstances lead the Company consider additional factors, the Company\x92 ESP for software upgrades and non-software services related future sales these devices could change. the estimated life one more the devices should change, the future rate amortization the revenue allocated the software upgrade rights would also change. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Company\x92 policy requires that, refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Management\x92 estimates are based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which would have negative impact the Company\x92 results operations. Valuation and Impairment Marketable Securities The Company\x92 investments available-for-sale securities are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related changes the fair value securities are recognized accumulated other comprehensive income, net tax, the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes the fair value available-for-sale securities impact the Company\x92 net income only when such securities are sold other-than-temporary impairment recognized. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are determined specific identification each security\x92 cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio determine any security other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company record impairment charge the period any such determination made. making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent which the fair value security less than its cost, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell, the security before recovery the its amortized cost basis. The Company\x92 assessment whether security other-than-temporarily impaired, could change the future due new developments changes assumptions related any particular security. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The industries which the Company competes are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results operations the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled are expected cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, the Company may required record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results operations the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could materially affect the Company\x92 results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. the event that the Company determines all part the net deferred tax assets are not realizable the future, the Company will make adjustment the valuation allowance that would charged earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings\x94 and Note , \x93Commitments and Contingencies\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. The Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable. There significant judgment required both the probability determination and whether exposure can reasonably estimated. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company the same reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Net Sales Fiscal years , and each spanned weeks. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal year will end September , and will span weeks, with 14th week added the first quarter . The following table summarizes net sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product during the three years ended September , ( millions, except unit sales thousands and per unit amounts): Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales , % , % , Asia-Pacific net sales , % , % , Retail net sales , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Net Sales Product: Desktops ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac net sales , % , % , iPod , ( )% , % , Other music related products and services ( ) , % , % , iPhone and related products and services ( ) , % , % , iPad and related products and services ( ) , % , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , % , % , Software, service and other sales ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Desktops ( ) , % , % , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac unit sales , % , % , iPod unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , iPhone units sold , % , % , iPad units sold , % , ( ) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. ( ) Includes sales from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBookstore addition sales iPod services and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPhone sales, carrier agreements, services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPad sales, services and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. ( ) Includes sales displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales from the Mac App Store addition sales other Apple-branded and third-party Mac software and Mac and Internet services. = Not Meaningful Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased $ billion % compared . Several factors contributed positively this increase, including the following: \x95 Net sales iPhone and related products and services were $ billion , representing increase $ billion % compared . iPhone handset unit sales totaled million during , representing increase million units % compared . iPhone year-over-year net sales growth reflected strong demand for iPhone all the Company\x92 operating segments. The expanded . distribution iPhone the Verizon Wireless network beginning February , continued expansion into new countries, and increased distribution with other new carriers and resellers also contributed the year-over-year growth iPhone. September , , the Company distributed iPhone countries through carriers. Additionally, the Company distributes iPhone through its direct channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales iPhone and related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . \x95 Net sales iPad and related products and services, which the Company introduced the third quarter , were $ billion , representing increase $ billion % compared . Unit sales iPad were million during , increase % from . The year-over-year unit growth and net sales growth were driven strong iPad demand all the Company\x92 operating segments. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain cellular network carriers\x92 distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. The Company distributed iPad countries September , compared countries September , . Net sales iPad and related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . \x95 Mac net sales were $ billion , representing increase $ billion % compared . Mac unit sales increased million % compared . The year-over-year growth Mac net sales and unit sales was due primarily higher demand all the Company\x92 operating segments for MacBook Air and MacBook Pro, which were updated July and February , respectively. The year-over-year revenue growth for portables and desktops was % and %, respectively. Net sales the Company\x92 Macs accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . \x95 Net sales other music related products and services were $ billion , representing increase $ billion % compared . The increase was due primarily increased net sales from the iTunes Store, which was largely driven App Store expansion into new countries that contributed strong growth all the Company\x92 geographic segments. During , the combined net sales for the iTunes Store, App Store and iBookstore was $ billion, representing increase % compared . The Company believes this continued growth the result heightened consumer interest downloading third-party digital content, continued growth its customer base iPhone, iPad and iPod, expansion third-party audio and video content available via the iTunes Store, and continued interest and growth the App Store. Net sales other music related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . Partially offsetting the positive factors contributing the overall increase net sales was decrease iPod net sales $ million % during compared . Similarly, iPod unit sales decreased % compared . However, net sales per iPod unit sold increased during compared due primarily shift iPod product mix toward iPod touch. Net sales iPod accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased $ billion % compared . Several factors contributed positively this increase, including the following: \x95 Net sales iPhone and related products and services were $ billion representing increase $ billion % compared . iPhone unit sales totaled million , which represents increase million % compared . iPhone year-over-year growth was attributable primarily continued growth from existing carriers, expanded distribution with new international carriers and resellers, and strong demand for iPhone , which was released the . June and many other countries over the remainder . September , , the Company distributed iPhone countries through carriers. Net sales iPhone and related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for compared % . \x95 Net sales iPad and related products and services were $ billion and unit sales iPad were million during . iPad was released the . April and various other countries over the remainder . September , , the Company distributed iPad countries. The Company distributes iPad through its direct channels, certain cellular network carriers\x92 distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. Net sales iPad and related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for , reflecting the strong demand for iPad during the five months following its release. \x95 Mac net sales increased $ billion % compared , and Mac unit sales increased million % compared . Net sales per Mac unit sold decreased % compared due primarily lower average selling prices Mac portable systems. During , net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Mac portable systems increased % and %, respectively, primarily attributable strong demand for MacBook Pro, which was updated April . Net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Mac desktop systems increased % and %, respectively, result higher sales iMac, which was updated July . Net sales the Company\x92 Macs accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales compared % . \x95 Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . This increase was due primarily growth the iTunes Store which generated total net sales $ billion for . The results the iTunes Store reflect growth the iTunes App Store, continued growth the installed base iPhone, iPad, and iPod customers, and the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store. The Company continues expand its iTunes content and applications offerings around the world. Net sales other music related products and services accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for compared % . \x95 Net sales iPods increased $ million % during , while iPod unit sales declined % during compared . Net sales per iPod unit sold increased % $ compared , due shift product mix toward iPod touch. iPod touch experienced strong growth each the Company\x92 reportable operating segments. Net sales iPods accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for compared % . Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The results the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments not include the results the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores countries. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Americas During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion % compared . The primary contributors the growth net sales was significant year-over-year increase iPhone revenue from carrier expansion and strong demand for iPhone and increased sales iPad and Macs, partially offset decrease iPod net sales. Higher sales third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store and App Store also drove increase sales during . The Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\x92 total net sales for and , respectively. During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion % compared . This increase net sales was driven increased iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad, continued demand for Mac desktop and portable systems, and higher sales third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store. The Americas segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales and , respectively. Europe For , net sales the Europe segment increased $ billion %, compared . The increase net sales during was attributable primarily the continued year-over-year increase iPhone revenue from carrier expansion and strong demand for iPhone , and increased sales iPad and Macs, partially offset decrease iPod net sales. The Europe segment represented % and % total net sales for and , respectively. During , net sales Europe increased $ billion % compared . The growth net sales was due mainly significant increase iPhone revenue attributable continued growth from existing carriers and country and carrier expansion, increased sales Mac desktop and portable systems and strong demand for iPad, partially offset stronger . dollar. The Europe segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales and , respectively. Japan Japan\x92 net sales increased $ billion % during compared . The key contributors Japan\x92 net sales growth were increased iPhone revenue, strong sales iPad, increased sales Macs, and strength the Japanese Yen relative the . dollar. The Japan segment represented % and % total net sales for and , respectively. The recent earthquakes and tsunami that struck the northeast coast Japan have created uncertainty regarding general economic and market conditions Japan. Any significant impact these events consumer demand could negatively impact the Company\x92 net sales Japan the future. The Company does not currently believe that the impact these events will have material adverse effect the Company its results operations. During , Japan\x92 net sales increased $ billion % compared . The primary contributors this growth were significant year-over-year increases iPhone revenue, strong demand for iPad, and lesser extent strength the Japanese Yen. The Japan segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales for and , respectively. Asia-Pacific Net sales the Asia Pacific segment increased $ billion % during compared . The Company experienced particularly strong year-over-year net sales growth its Asia Pacific segment during , especially Greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan. Korea and Australia also experienced strong year-over-year revenue growth. Higher net sales the Asia Pacific segment were due mainly the increase iPhone revenue primarily attributable the strong demand for iPhone and carrier expansion, strong sales iPad, and increased sales Macs. The Asia Pacific segment represented % and % total net sales and , respectively. Net sales Asia-Pacific increased $ billion % during compared . The significant growth Asia-Pacific net sales was due mainly increased iPhone revenue, which was primarily attributable country and carrier expansion and continued growth from existing carriers. Asia-Pacific net sales were also favorably affected strong demand for Mac portable and desktop systems and for iPad. Particularly strong year-over-year growth was experienced China, Korea and Australia. The Asia-Pacific segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales for and , respectively. Retail Retail segment net sales increased $ billion % during compared . The increase net sales was driven primarily strong demand for iPad, higher sales Macs, and increase iPhone revenue. The Company opened new retail stores during , which were outside the ., ending the year with stores open compared stores the end . September , , the Company had total . retail stores and international retail stores. During , the Company had average stores compared average stores during . The average revenue per store increased % $ million compared $ million . The Retail segment represented % and % total net sales and , respectively. Retail net sales increased $ billion % during compared . The increase net sales was driven primarily strong demand for iPad, increased sales Mac desktop and portable systems and significant year-over-year increase iPhone revenue. The Company opened new retail stores during , which were outside the ., ending the year with stores open compared stores the end . With average stores and stores opened during and , respectively, average revenue per store increased $ million , compared $ million . The Retail segment represented % and % the Company\x92 total net sales and , respectively. The Retail segment reported operating income $ billion during compared $ billion during . The year-over-year increase Retail operating income was primarily attributable higher overall net sales that resulted significantly higher average revenue per store during compared . The Retail segment reported operating income $ billion during . The increase Retail operating income during compared was attributable higher overall net sales. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment since inception totaled $ billion through the end . September , , the Retail segment had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding lease commitments associated with retail space and related facilities $ billion. The Company would incur substantial costs were close multiple retail stores and such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Gross Margin Gross margin for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % The gross margin percentage was %, compared % . This year-over-year increase gross margin was largely driven lower commodity and other product costs. The gross margin percentage was % compared % . This year-over-year decline gross margin was primarily attributable new products that had higher cost structures, including iPad, partially offset more favorable sales mix iPhone, which had higher gross margin than the Company average. The Company expects experience decreases its gross margin percentage future periods, compared levels achieved during , largely due higher mix new and innovative products with flat reduced pricing that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value customers, and potential future component cost and other cost increases. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because several factors including, but not limited certain those set forth below Part , Item , \x93Risk Factors\x94 under the subheading \x93 Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain components sufficient quantities ,\x94 which incorporated herein reference. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and potential increases the cost components, well potential increases the costs outside manufacturing services and potential shift the Company\x92 sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. response these competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): Research and development $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Research and Development Expense (\x93 & \x94) & expense increased $ million % $ billion compared . This increase was due primarily increase headcount and related expenses support expanded & activities. Although total & expense increased % during compared , declined slightly percentage net sales, due the % year-over-year growth the Company\x92 net sales during . & expense increased % $ million $ billion compared . This increase was due primarily increase headcount and related expenses the current year support expanded & activities. Also contributing this increase & expense was the capitalization software development costs $ million related Mac Snow Leopard. Although total & expense increased % during , declined percentage net sales given the % year-over-year increase net sales . The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. such, the Company expects make further investments & remain competitive. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (\x93 & \x94) & expense increased $ billion % $ billion during compared . This increase was due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment, increased headcount and related costs, higher spending professional services and marketing and advertising programs, and increased variable costs associated with the overall growth the Company\x92 net sales. & expense increased $ billion % $ billion compared . This increase was due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment, higher spending marketing and advertising programs, increased share-based compensation expenses and variable costs associated with the overall growth the Company\x92 net sales. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions): Interest and dividend income $ $ $ Other expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income and expense $ $ $ Total other income and expense increased $ million % $ million during compared $ million and $ million and , respectively. The year-over-year increase other income and expense during was due primarily higher interest income and net realized gains sales marketable securities. The overall decrease other income and expense compared was attributable the significant declines interest rates year-over-year basis, partially offset the Company\x92 higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. Additionally the Company incurred higher premium expenses its foreign exchange option contracts, which further reduced the total other income and expense. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was %, % and % during , and , respectively. During , and , the Company had debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes The Company\x92 effective tax rates were approximately %, % and % for , and , respectively. The Company\x92 effective rates for these periods differ from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ billion, and deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS currently examining the years through . All IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. addition, the Company subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics and for the three years ended September , ( millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ , $ , $ , Inventories $ $ , $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Annual operating cash flow $ , $ , $ , Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased $ billion % during . The principal components this net increase was the cash generated operating activities $ billion, which was partially offset payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment $ billion, payments for acquisition intangible assets $ billion and payments made connection with business acquisitions, net cash acquired, $ million. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. The Company\x92 marketable securities investment portfolio invested primarily highly rated securities and its policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 investment policy requires investments generally investment grade with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . Capital Assets The Company\x92 capital expenditures were $ billion during , consisting approximately $ million for retail store facilities and $ billion for other capital expenditures, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, real estate for the future development the Company\x92 second corporate campus, and other corporate facilities and infrastructure. The Company\x92 actual cash payments for capital expenditures during were $ billion, which $ million relates retail store facilities. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $ billion for capital expenditures during , including approximately $ million for retail store facilities and approximately $ billion for product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements. During , the Company expects open about new retail stores, approximately three-quarters which will located outside the . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheet ( millions): Total Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Operating leases $ , $ $ $ $ , Purchase obligations , , Other obligations , , Total $ , $ , $ $ $ , Lease Commitments The Company\x92 major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments $ billion. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $ billion September , , and were comprised mainly commitments under long-term supply agreements make additional inventory component prepayments and acquire capital equipment, commitments acquire product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. The Company\x92 other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. September , , the Company had non-current deferred tax liabilities $ billion. Additionally, September , , the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits $ billion and additional $ million for gross interest and penalties classified non-current liabilities. this time, the Company unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments individual years connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included the above contractual obligation table. Indemnification The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss with respect indemnification end-users its operating system application software for infringement third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record liability for infringement costs related indemnification either September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not been material. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. Given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance these positions will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further, the recognition timing gains and losses related these instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\x92 leading industrialized countries, the Company\x92 interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations . interest rates. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, the fair value those securities, well costs associated with hedging. The Company\x92 investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting the liquidity requirements the Company. portion the Company\x92 cash managed external managers within the guidelines the Company\x92 investment policy and objective market benchmarks. The Company\x92 internal portfolio benchmarked against external manager performance. The Company\x92 exposure changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio. The Company typically invests highly rated securities and its policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 investment policy generally requires investments investment grade, with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there have been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its material foreign exchange exposures, typically for six months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (\x93VAR\x94) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the loss fair value incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Three years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , , Inventories , Deferred tax assets , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Long-term marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Goodwill Acquired intangible assets, net , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Deferred revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Deferred revenue \x96 non-current , , Other non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , and , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands) Common Stock Retained Earnings Accum- ulated Other Compre- hensive Income/ (Loss) Total Share- holders\x92 Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income , , Change foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains losses marketable securities, net tax Change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Share-based compensation Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments ( ) ( ) Balances September , , , , , Components comprehensive income: Net income , , Change foreign currency translation Change unrealized gains losses marketable securities, net tax Change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Share-based compensation Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments Balances September , , , , ( ) , Components comprehensive income: Net income , , Change foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains losses marketable securities, net tax ( ) ( ) Change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax Total comprehensive income , Share-based compensation , , Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments Balances September , , $ , $ , $ $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Three years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion , , Share-based compensation expense , Deferred income tax expense , , , Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) ( ) Inventories ( ) Vendor non-trade receivables ( , ) ( , ) Other current and non-current assets ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Accounts payable , , Deferred revenue , , Other current and non-current liabilities , ( ) Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net cash acquired ( ) ( ) Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for acquisition intangible assets ( , ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from equity awards , Taxes paid related net share settlement equity awards ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated financing activities , , (Decrease)/increase cash and cash equivalents ( , ) , ( , ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x96 Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) designs, manufactures, and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod compatible products including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, education, enterprise and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year\x92 presentation. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company\x92 fiscal years , and ended September , , September , and September , , respectively, and included weeks each. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal year will end September , , and will span weeks, with 14th week added the first quarter . Unless otherwise stated, references particular years quarters refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. During the first quarter , the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standard Board\x92 (\x93FASB\x94) new accounting standard consolidation variable interest entities. This new accounting standard eliminates the mandatory quantitative approach determining control for evaluating whether variable interest entities need consolidated favor qualitative analysis, and requires ongoing reassessment control over such entities. The adoption this new accounting standard did not impact the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware, and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company generally establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company generally recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies based the gross amount billed. For sales third-party software applications for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch (\x93iOS devices\x94) and Macs made through the App Store and the Mac App Store, the Company not the primary obligor users the software, and third- party developers determine the selling price their software. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing only the commission retains from each sale and including that commission net sales the Consolidated Statements Operations. The portion the sales price paid users that remitted the Company third-party developers not reflected the Company\x92 Consolidated Statements Operations. The Company records deferred revenue when receives payments advance the delivery products the performance services. This includes amounts that have been deferred for unspecified and specified software upgrade rights and non-software services that are attached hardware and software products. The Company sells gift cards redeemable its retail and online stores, and also sells gift cards redeemable the iTunes Store for the purchase content and software. The Company records deferred revenue upon the sale the card, which relieved upon redemption the card the customer. Revenue from AppleCare service and support contracts deferred and recognized over the service coverage periods. AppleCare service and support contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources and diagnostic tools offered under the Company\x92 standard limited warranty. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs recognized the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Revenue recorded net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Revenue Recognition for Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product\x92 functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product\x92 essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (\x93VSOE\x94), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (\x93TPE\x94), and (iii) best estimate the selling price (\x93ESP\x94). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company\x92 best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For sales iPhone, iPad, Apple , for sales iPod touch beginning June , and for sales Mac beginning June , the Company has indicated may from time- -time provide future unspecified software upgrades and features the essential software bundled with each these hardware products free charge customers. Essential software for iOS devices includes iOS and related applications and for Mac includes Mac and iLife. June , the Company announced would provide various non-software services owners qualifying versions iOS devices and Mac. The Company has identified three deliverables arrangements involving the sale these devices. The first deliverable the hardware and software essential the functionality the hardware device delivered the time sale. The second deliverable the embedded right included with the purchase iOS devices, Mac and Apple receive when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades and features relating the product\x92 essential software. The third deliverable the non-software services provided qualifying versions iOS devices and Mac. The Company allocates revenue between these deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for these deliverables, the allocation revenue has been based the Company\x92 ESPs. Amounts allocated the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized the time sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights and the non-software services are deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated lives each these devices, which range from months. Cost sales related delivered hardware and related essential software, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs incurred provide non-software services are recognized cost sales incurred, and engineering and sales and marketing costs are recognized operating expenses incurred. The Company\x92 process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE TPE considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. The Company believes its customers, particularly consumers, would reluctant buy unspecified software upgrade rights related iOS devices, Mac and Apple . This view primarily based the fact that unspecified upgrade rights not obligate the Company provide upgrades particular time all, and not specify customers which upgrades features will delivered. The Company also believes its customers would unwilling pay significant amount for access the non-software services because other companies offer similar services little cost users. Therefore, the Company has concluded that were sell upgrade rights access the non-software services standalone basis, including those rights and services attached iOS devices, Mac and Apple , the selling prices would relatively low. Key factors considered the Company developing the ESPs for software upgrade rights include prices charged the Company for similar offerings, market trends for pricing Mac and iOS compatible software, the Company\x92 historical pricing practices, the nature the upgrade rights ( ., unspecified and when-and- -available), and the relative ESP the upgrade rights compared the total selling price the product. The Company may also consider, when appropriate, the impact other products and services, including advertising services, selling price assumptions when developing and reviewing its ESPs for software upgrade rights and related deliverables. The Company may also consider additional factors appropriate, including the pricing competitive alternatives they exist and product-specific business objectives. When relevant, the same factors are considered the Company developing ESPs for offerings such the non-software services; however, the primary consideration developing ESPs for the non-software services the estimated cost provide such services over the estimated life the related devices, including consideration for reasonable profit margin. Beginning with the Company\x92 June announcement the upcoming release the non-software services and Mac Lion, the Company\x92 combined ESP for the unspecified software upgrade rights and the right receive the non-software services are follows: $ for iPhone and iPad, $ for iPod touch, and $ for Mac. The Company\x92 ESP for the embedded unspecified software upgrade right included with each Apple $ for and $ for fiscal years prior . Amounts allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights and the non-software services associated with iOS devices and Apple are recognized straight-line basis over months, and amounts allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights and the non-software services associated with Macs are recognized straight-line basis over months. The Company\x92 ESP for the software upgrade right included with each iPhone sold beginning with the introduction iPhone June through the Company\x92 second quarter was $ . Beginning April conjunction with the Company\x92 announcement iOS for iPhone, the Company lowered its ESP for the software upgrade right included with each iPhone $ . Beginning with initial sales iPad April , the Company\x92 ESP for the embedded software upgrade right included with the sale each iPad $ , and the Company\x92 ESP for the embedded software upgrade right included with each iPod touch sold beginning June $ . The Company accounts for multiple element arrangements that consist only software software-related products, including the sale upgrades previously sold software, accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance. For such transactions, revenue arrangements that include multiple elements allocated each element based the relative fair value each element, and fair value determined VSOE. the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value any undelivered element included such multiple-element arrangements, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, until fair value can objectively determined for any remaining undelivered elements. Beginning July , the sale certain upgrades Mac and Mac versions iLife include when-and- -available upgrade rights for which the Company does not have VSOE. Therefore, beginning July the Company defers all revenue from the sale upgrades the Mac and Mac versions iLife and recognizes ratably over months. Shipping Costs For all periods presented, amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are included cost sales. Warranty Expense The Company generally provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally most software development costs have been expensed incurred. The Company did not capitalize any software development costs during and . , the Company capitalized $ million costs associated with the development Mac Version Snow Leopard (\x93Mac Snow Leopard\x94), which was released during the fourth quarter . The capitalized costs are being amortized cost sales straight-line basis over three year estimated useful life the underlying technology. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Share-based Compensation The Company recognizes expense related share-based payment transactions which receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the Company ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. Share-based compensation cost for restricted stock units (\x93RSUs\x94) measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Share-based compensation cost for stock options estimated the grant date based each option\x92 fair-value calculated the Black-Scholes-Merton (\x93BSM\x94) option-pricing model. The Company recognizes share-based compensation cost expense ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company recognizes benefit from share-based compensation the Consolidated Statements Shareholders\x92 Equity incremental tax benefit realized. addition, the Company recognizes the indirect effects share-based compensation research and development tax credits, foreign tax credits and domestic manufacturing deductions the Consolidated Statements Operations. Further information regarding share-based compensation can found Note , \x93Shareholders\x92 Equity and Share-based Compensation\x94 this Form - . Income Taxes The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon settlement. See Note , \x93Income Taxes\x94 this Form - for additional information. Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the potentially dilutive securities had been issued. Potentially dilutive securities include outstanding stock options, shares purchased under the employee stock purchase plan and unvested RSUs. The dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities reflected diluted earnings per common share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per common share for the three years ended September , ( thousands, except net income millions and per share amounts): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , Basic earnings per common share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per common share $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities representing million, million and million shares common stock for , and , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company\x92 marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments the time purchase and reevaluates the designations each balance sheet date. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date. Marketable debt securities with maturities months less are classified short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. The Company classifies its marketable equity securities, including mutual funds, either short-term long-term based the nature each security and its availability for use current operations. The Company\x92 marketable debt and equity securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\x92 equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into income the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument, any, recognized current income. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For options designated cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized income. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, both the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The Company had fair value hedges , and . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward exchange contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current income. Derivatives that not qualify hedges must adjusted fair value through current income. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\x92 ability pay. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. The Company\x92 inventories consist primarily components and finished goods for all periods presented. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, five years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms ten years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from three five years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ billion, $ million and $ million during , and , respectively. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amounts future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. The Company did not record any significant impairments during , and . The Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, rather such assets are required tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the assets may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests the fourth quarter each fiscal year. The Company did not recognize any goodwill intangible asset impairment charges , and . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods generally ranging between three seven years. Fair Value Measurements The Company applies fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such risks inherent valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value estimated applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level \x96 Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level \x96 Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level \x96 Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimate assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The Company\x92 valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and certain marketable equity securities were derived from quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value all other financial instruments, all which have counterparties with high credit ratings, were valued based quoted market prices model driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. accordance with the fair value accounting requirements, companies may choose measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items fair value. The Company has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments. Foreign Currency Translation and Remeasurement The Company translates the assets and liabilities its non- . dollar functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are recognized foreign currency translation included accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these remeasurements were insignificant and have been included the Company\x92 results operations. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. Information about the Company\x92 products, major customers and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. Note \x96 Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities\x92 adjusted cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value significant investment category recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term long-term marketable securities September , and September , ( millions): September , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Level : Money market funds , , , Mutual funds , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , Level : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , , . agency securities , ( ) , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , ( ) , , Commercial paper , , , Corporate securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , , Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , September , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ $ $ , $ , $ $ Level : Money market funds , , , Level : . Treasury securities , , , , , . agency securities , , , , , Non- . government securities , , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , ( ) , , Commercial paper , , , , Corporate securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , Subtotal , ( ) , , , , Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , The net unrealized gains September , and September , related primarily long-term marketable securities. The Company may sell certain its marketable securities prior their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited , anticipation credit deterioration and duration management. The Company recognized net realized gains $ million during and significant net realized gains losses during and related such sales. The maturities the Company\x92 long-term marketable securities generally range from one year five years. September , and September , , gross unrealized losses related individual securities that had been continuous loss position for months longer were not significant. The Company considers the declines market value its marketable securities investment portfolio temporary nature. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 investment policy requires investments generally investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell, the investment before recovery the investment\x92 amortized cost basis. During , and , the Company did not recognize any significant impairment charges. September , , the Company does not consider any its investments other-than-temporarily impaired. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign currency exchange risk. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset some the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales, net investments certain foreign subsidiaries, and certain existing assets and liabilities. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, certain the Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency the . dollar hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue. The Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency not the . dollar and who sell local currencies may hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currencies. The Company typically hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases generally six months. help protect the net investment foreign operation from adverse changes foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the changes the carrying amounts these investments due fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign currency exchange exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign currency exchange rates. The Company records all derivatives the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The Company\x92 accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The effective portions cash flow hedges are recorded AOCI until the hedged item recognized earnings. The effective portions net investment hedges are recorded other comprehensive income part the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portions cash flow hedges and net investment hedges are recorded other income and expense. Derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments are adjusted fair value through earnings the financial statement line item the derivative relates . The Company had net deferred gain associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million and net deferred loss associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million, net taxes, recorded AOCI September , and September , , respectively. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges foreign currency revenue are recognized component net sales the same period the related revenue recognized, and deferred gains and losses related cash flow hedges inventory purchases are recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Substantially all the Company\x92 hedged transactions September , are expected occur within six months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent two-month time period. Deferred gains and losses AOCI associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified immediately into other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are reflected other income and expense unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company did not recognize any significant net gains losses related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges during , and . The Company\x92 unrealized net gains and losses net investment hedges, included the cumulative translation adjustment account AOCI, were not significant September , and September , , respectively. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness test net investment hedges are recorded other income and expense. The Company recognized other income and expense net loss $ million, $ million and $ million foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated hedging instruments during , and , respectively. These amounts represent the net gain loss the derivative contracts and not include changes the related exposures, which generally offset portion the gain loss the derivative contracts. The following table summarizes the notional principal amounts the Company\x92 outstanding derivative instruments and credit risk amounts associated with outstanding unsettled derivative instruments September , and September , ( millions): Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ Instruments other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ The notional principal amounts for outstanding derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding and not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss derivative instruments that are outstanding unsettled all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\x92 gross exposure these transactions may further mitigated collateral received from certain counterparties. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. Although the table above reflects the notional principal and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received posted when the net fair value certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities their gross fair values. September , , the Company received cash collateral related the derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements $ million, which recorded accrued expenses the Consolidated Balance Sheet. September , , the Company posted cash collateral related the derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements $ million, which recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company did not have any derivative instruments with credit-risk related contingent features that would require post additional collateral September , September , . The following tables summarize the gross fair value the Company\x92 derivative instruments reflected the Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , ( millions): September , Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ September , Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ ( ) The fair value derivative assets measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) The fair value derivative liabilities measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded accrued expenses the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table summarizes the pre-tax effect the Company\x92 derivative instruments designated cash flow and net investment hedges the consolidated financial statements for the years ended September , and September , ( millions): Year Ended Gains/(Losses) Recognized OCI - Effective Portion ( ) Gains/(Losses) Reclassified from AOCI into Income - Effective Portion ( ) Gains/(Losses) Recognized \x96 Ineffective Portion and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing September , September , September , ( ) September , ( ) Location September , September , Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Other income and expense $ ( ) $ ( ) Net investment hedges: Foreign exchange contracts ( ) ( ) Other income and expense Total $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into income for the effective portion cash flow hedges, which $( ) million and $( ) million were recognized within net sales and cost sales, respectively, within the Consolidated Statement Operations for the year ended September , . There were amounts reclassified from AOCI into income for the effective portion net investment hedges for the year ended September , . ( ) Includes gains/(losses) reclassified from AOCI into income for the effective portion cash flow hedges, which $ million and $( ) million were recognized within net sales and cost sales, respectively, within the Consolidated Statement Operations for the year ended September , . There were amounts reclassified from AOCI into income for the effective portion net investment hedges for the year ended September , . ( ) Refer Note , \x93Shareholders\x92 Equity and Share-based Compensation\x94 this Form - , which summarizes the activity AOCI related derivatives. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, value-added resellers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. September , , there were customers that accounted for % more the Company\x92 total trade receivables. Trade receivables from two the Company\x92 customers accounted for % and % total trade receivables September , . The Company\x92 cellular network carriers accounted for % and % trade receivables September , and September , , respectively. The additions and write-offs the Company\x92 allowance for doubtful accounts during , and were not significant. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. Vendor non-trade receivables from two the Company\x92 vendors accounted for % and % total non-trade receivables September , and vendor non-trade receivables from two the Company\x92 vendors accounted for % and % total non-trade receivables September , . The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the related products are sold the Company, which time any profit recognized reduction cost sales. Note \x96 Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company\x92 consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Property, Plant and Equipment Land and buildings $ , $ , Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Net property, plant and equipment $ , $ , Accrued Expenses Deferred margin component sales $ , $ Accrued warranty and related costs , Accrued taxes , Accrued marketing and selling expenses Accrued compensation and employee benefits Other current liabilities , , Total accrued expenses $ , $ , Non-Current Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Note \x96 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods generally ranging between three seven years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances September , and September , ( millions): Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Definite lived and amortizable acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ Indefinite lived and non-amortizable trademarks Total acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ During and , the Company completed various business acquisitions. , the aggregate cash consideration, net cash acquired, was $ million, which $ million was allocated goodwill and $ million acquired intangible assets. , the aggregate cash consideration, net cash acquired, was $ million, which $ million was allocated goodwill and $ million acquired intangible assets. During , the Company, part consortium, acquired Nortel Networks Corporation\x92 patent portfolio for overall purchase price $ billion, which the Company\x92 contribution was approximately $ billion. The majority the acquisition price has been recorded acquired intangible assets, which the Company expects amortize over seven years. The Department Justice reviewing this transaction. The Company\x92 gross carrying amount goodwill was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company did not have any goodwill impairment during , . The Company\x92 goodwill allocated primarily the Americas and Europe reportable operating segments. Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. September , the weighted-average amortization period for acquired intangible assets was years. The expected annual amortization expense related acquired intangible assets September , , follows ( millions): Years $ Thereafter Total $ , Note \x96 Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for the three years ended September , , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred , , , , , , State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\x92 foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . September , , . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability related these temporary differences estimated approximately $ billion. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ , $ , Basis capital assets and investments Share-based compensation Other Total deferred tax assets , , Less valuation allowance Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earning foreign subsidiaries , , Other Total deferred tax liabilities , , Net deferred tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Domestic production activities deduction ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company\x92 income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For stock options, the Company receives income tax benefit calculated the difference between the fair market value the stock issued the time the exercise and the option price, tax effected. For RSUs, the Company receives income tax benefit upon the award\x92 vesting equal the tax effect the underlying stock\x92 fair market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from equity awards $ billion, $ million and $ million , and , respectively, which were reflected increases common stock. Uncertain Tax Positions Tax positions are evaluated two-step process. The Company first determines whether more likely than not that tax position will sustained upon examination. tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold then measured determine the amount benefit recognize the financial statements. The tax position measured the largest amount benefit that greater than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not expected result payment receipt cash within one year non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. The aggregate changes the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Beginning Balance $ $ Increases related tax positions taken during prior year Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( ) Decreases related expiration statute limitations ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending Balance $ , $ $ The Company includes interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ million and $ million, respectively, which classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. connection with tax matters, the Company recognized interest expense and $ million and $ million, respectively, and the Company recognized interest benefit $ million. The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. For . federal income tax purposes, all years prior are closed. The Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. The IRS currently examining the years through . addition, the Company also subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent and , respectively, generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Although timing the resolution and closure audits not certain, the Company does not believe reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits would materially change the next months. Note \x96 Shareholders\x92 Equity and Share-based Compensation Preferred Stock The Company has five million shares authorized preferred stock, none which issued outstanding. Under the terms the Company\x92 Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\x92 authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under GAAP are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities classified available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components AOCI, net taxes, September , , September , , and September , ( millions): Net unrealized gains losses marketable securities $ $ $ Net unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) $ $ ( ) $ The change fair value available-for-sale securities included other comprehensive income was $( ) million, $ million and $ million, net taxes , and , respectively. The tax effect related the change unrealized gains losses available-for-sale securities was $ million, $( ) million and $( ) million for , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company during the three years ended September , ( millions): Changes fair value derivatives $ $ ( ) $ Adjustment for net gains losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments $ $ ( ) $ ( ) The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $( ) million, $ million and $( ) million for , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains losses reclassified from other comprehensive income income was $( ) million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, RSUs, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights and performance-based awards. Options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years, based continued employment, with either annual, semi-annual quarterly vesting. general, RSUs granted under the Plan vest over two four years, based continued employment and are settled upon vesting shares the Company\x92 common stock one-for-one basis. Each share issued with respect award granted under the Plan (other than stock option stock appreciation right) reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares, whereas shares issued respect option stock appreciation right count against the number shares available for grant one-for-one basis. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Director Stock Plan The Director Stock Plan (the \x93Director Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company\x92 non-employee directors, ( ) provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board prospectively change the relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company\x92 common stock subject these grants without shareholder approval. Each share issued with respect RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares. The Director Plan expires November , . September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the fourth quarter , executive officers Timothy . Cook, Peter Oppenheimer, . Bruce Sewell, Phil Schiller and Jeffrey . Williams, and directors William . Campbell and Arthur . Levinson had trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94). trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock, including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting RSUs. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the \x93Purchase Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan under which substantially all employees may purchase the Company\x92 common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning the end six-month offering periods. employee\x92 payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee\x92 compensation and employees may not purchase more than $ , stock during any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Employee Savings Plan (the \x93Savings Plan\x94) deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the IRS annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 eligible earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the Savings Plan were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Restricted Stock Units summary the Company\x92 RSU activity and related information for the three years ended September , , follows ( thousands, except per share amounts): Number RSUs Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance September , , $ RSUs units granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs units granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs units granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , , The fair value the vesting date RSUs was $ billion, $ billion and $ million for , and , respectively. The majority RSUs that vested , and , were net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees\x92 minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million, million and , for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their vesting date determined the Company\x92 closing stock price. Total payments for the employees\x92 tax obligations the taxing authorities were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively, and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. These net-share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced and retired the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. Stock Option Activity summary the Company\x92 stock option activity and related information for the three years ended September , , follows ( thousands, except per share amounts and contractual term years): Outstanding Options Number Options Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance September , , $ Options granted $ Options cancelled ( , ) $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ Options granted $ Options assumed $ Options cancelled ( ) $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ Options granted $ Options cancelled ( ) $ Options exercised ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , , Exercisable September , , $ $ , , Expected vest after September , $ $ , Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value the Company\x92 closing stock price the last trading day the fiscal period excess the weighted-average exercise price multiplied the number options outstanding exercisable. Total intrinsic value options time exercise was $ billion, $ billion and $ million for , and , respectively. Share-based Compensation Share-based compensation cost for RSUs measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Share-based compensation cost for stock options and employee stock purchase plan rights (\x93stock purchase rights\x94) estimated the grant date and offering date, respectively, based the fair-value calculated the BSM option-pricing model. The BSM option-pricing model incorporates various assumptions including expected volatility, expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility based the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the expected life the Company\x92 stock options and other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\x92 common stock. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock awards grants employees. The Company recognizes share-based compensation cost expense straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company granted , stock options, , stock options and , stock options during , and , respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value stock options granted during , and was $ , $ and $ per share, respectively. The Company did not assume any stock options conjunction with business combinations during . During , the Company assumed , stock options, which had weighted-average fair value $ per share. The weighted-average fair value stock purchase rights per share was $ , $ and $ during , and , respectively. The following table provides summary the share-based compensation expense included the Consolidated Statements Operations for the three years ended September , ( millions): Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development Selling, general and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ , $ $ The income tax benefit related share-based compensation expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. September , , the total unrecognized compensation cost related outstanding stock options and RSUs was $ billion, which the Company expects recognize over weighted-average period years. Note \x96 Commitments and Contingencies Accrued Warranty and Indemnification The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 accrued warranty and related costs for the three years ended September , ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( , ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranty , Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ $ The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss with respect indemnification end-users its operating system application software for infringement third-party intellectual property rights. The Company did not record liability for infringement costs related indemnification either September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not been material. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, number components are currently obtained from single limited sources, which subjects the Company significant supply and pricing risks. Many components that are available from multiple sources are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. addition, the Company has entered into various agreements for the supply components; however there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company and other participants the mobile communication and media device, and personal computer industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company also uses some custom components that are not common the rest these industries, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers concentrated the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Substantially all the Company\x92 hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are primarily located Asia. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturer for many the Company\x92 products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods days. Long-Term Supply Agreements The Company has entered into long-term agreements secure the supply certain inventory components. These agreements generally expire between and . September , , the Company had total $ billion inventory component prepayments outstanding, which $ million are classified other current assets and $ billion are classified other assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company had total $ million inventory component prepayments outstanding September , . The Company\x92 outstanding prepayments will applied certain inventory component purchases made during the term each respective agreement. Other Off-Balance Sheet Commitments Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are typically for terms not exceeding years and generally provide renewal options for terms not exceeding five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for ten years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): Years $ Thereafter , Total minimum lease payments $ , Other Commitments September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet commitments for outsourced manufacturing and component purchases $ billion. Additionally, other outstanding obligations were $ billion September , , and were comprised mainly commitments under long-term supply agreements make additional inventory component prepayments and acquire capital equipment, commitments acquire product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and commitments related advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated, which are discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings\x94 and Part Item under the heading \x93Risk Factors.\x94 the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company the same reporting period for amounts excess management\x92 expectations, the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its reportable operating segments, which are generally based the nature and location its customers, the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail operations. The results the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific reportable segments not include results the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores countries. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies.\x94 The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers, while Retail segment net sales are based sales from the Company\x92 retail stores. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, such manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, research and development, corporate marketing expenses, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges, and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets, such cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term marketable securities, other long-term investments, manufacturing and corporate facilities, product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. Except for the Retail segment, capital asset purchases for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Cash payments for capital asset purchases the Retail segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company has certain retail stores that have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. The Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with its high-profile stores corporate expense reflect the estimated Company-wide benefit. The allocation these operating costs corporate expense based the amount incurred for high-profile store excess that incurred more typical Company retail location. The Company had opened total high-profile stores September , . Amounts allocated corporate expense resulting from the operations high-profile stores were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Summary information operating segment for the three years ended September , follows ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Asia-Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ , $ , $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate and Retail assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements for the three years ended September , follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Other corporate expenses, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Share-based compensation expense ( , ) ( ) ( ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Corporate assets , , , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization and accretion , Consolidated depreciation, amortization and accretion $ , $ , $ ( ) Other corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses, including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The . and China were the only countries that accounted for more than % Company\x92 net sales . single country other than the . accounted for more than % net sales . There was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales . One the Company\x92 customers accounted for % net sales . Net sales for the three years ended September , and long-lived assets September , , September , and September , are follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , $ , ( ) China includes Hong Kong. Long-lived assets located China consist primarily product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and assets related retail stores and related infrastructure. Information regarding net sales product for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Desktops ( ) $ , $ , $ , Portables ( ) , , , Total Mac net sales , , , iPod , , , Other music related products and services ( ) , , , iPhone and related products and services ( ) , , , iPad and related products and services ( ) , , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , , , Software, service and other net sales ( ) , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. ( ) Includes sales from the iTunes Store, App Store, and iBookstore addition sales iPod services and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPhone sales, carrier agreements, services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes revenue recognized from iPad sales, services and Apple-branded and third-party iPad accessories. ( ) Includes sales displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales from the Mac App Store addition sales other Apple-branded and third-party Mac software and Mac and Internet services. Note \x96 Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables set forth summary the Company\x92 quarterly financial information for each the four quarters ended September , and September , ( millions, except per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (\x93the COSO criteria\x94). Apple Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Apple Inc. and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Exchange Act were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with GAAP. The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (\x93COSO\x94). Based the Company\x92 assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting, which appears Item ( ) this Annual Report Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter fiscal , which were identified connection with management\x92 evaluation required paragraph ( ) rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company\x92 Annual Meeting Shareholders (\x93 Proxy Statement\x94) and incorporated herein reference. Such Proxy Statement will filed with the SEC within days after the end the fiscal year which this report relates. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Executive Compensation\x94 and \x93Compensation Discussion and Analysis\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item set forth under the headings \x93Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Review, Approval Ratification Transactions with Related Persons\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this Item set forth under the heading \x93Fees Paid Auditors\x94 the Company\x92 Proxy Statement and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedule All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - The information required this Item set forth the exhibit index that follows the signature page this report. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}