{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively "Apple" the "Company") design, manufacture, and market personal computers, portable digital music players, and mobile communication devices and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh ("Mac"), iPod and iPhone compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. The Company\' fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best personal computing, portable digital music and mobile communication experience students, educators, creative professionals, businesses, government agencies, and consumers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, services, and Internet offerings. The Company\' business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating system, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical the development and enhancement innovative products and technologies. addition evolving its personal computers and related solutions, the Company continues capitalize the convergence the personal computer, digital consumer electronics and mobile communications creating and refining innovations, such the iPod, iPhone, iTunes Store, and Apple . The Company\' strategy also includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more its targeted customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. Digital Lifestyle The Company believes that for both professionals and consumers the personal computer has become the center evolving digital lifestyle integrating with and enhancing the utility advanced digital devices such the Company\' iPods, iPhones, digital video and still cameras, televisions, personal digital assistants, and other digital devices. The attributes the personal computer that enable this functionality include high-quality user interface, easy access relatively inexpensive data storage, the ability run complex applications, and the ability connect easily wide variety other digital devices and the Internet. The Company the only participant the personal computer industry that controls the design ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' and development the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated software applications. This, along with its products\' creative industrial designs, intuitive ease- -use, and built- graphics, multimedia and networking capabilities, positions the Company offer innovative integrated digital lifestyle solutions. Expanded Distribution The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company\' products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. The Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its retail and online stores. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales, including the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which places Apple employees and contractors selected third-party reseller locations. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers efficient way demonstrate the advantages its Mac computers and other products over those its competitors. the end fiscal , the Company had opened total its own retail stores, including stores the . and total stores Canada, Japan, . and Italy. The Company has typically located its stores high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. One the goals the retail initiative expand the Company\' installed base through sales customers who currently not already own the Company\' products. operating its own stores and locating them desirable high-traffic locations, the Company better positioned control the customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing the Company\' products and related solutions. that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes order accommodate market-specific demands. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice and certain support services. The stores offer wide selection third-party hardware, software, and various other accessory products and peripherals selected complement the Company\' own products. Education Throughout its history, the Company has focused the use technology education and has been committed delivering tools help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation student thoughts and ideas. The Company has designed range products and services address the needs education customers. These products and services include the Company\' Mac computers, iPods, iTunes, and Apple , addition various solutions for video creation and editing, wireless networking, professional development, and one- -one ( : ) learning. : learning solution typically consists portable computer for every student and teacher along with the installation wireless network. Creative Professionals Creative professionals constitute one the Company\' most important markets for both hardware and software products. This market also important many third-party developers who provide Mac-compatible hardware and software solutions. Creative customers utilize the Company\' products for variety activities including digital video and film production and editing; digital video and film special effects, compositing and titling; digital still photography and workflow management; graphic design, publishing, and print production; music creation and production; audio production and sound design; and web design, development, and administration. The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions, including servers, desktops, and portable Mac systems, incorporate the power, expandability, and features desired creative professionals. The Company\' operating system, Mac , incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' features developer tools optimize system and application performance when running creative solutions provided the Company third-party developers. Other addition consumer, education and creative professional markets, the Company provides hardware and software products and solutions for customers the information technology, science, business, and government markets. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, the . and Italy. Each reportable geographic operating segment and the Retail operating segment provide similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Segment Operating Performance," and Part , Item this Form - Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and portable personal computers, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party hardware and software products. addition, the Company offers software products including Mac ® , the Company\' proprietary operating system software for the Mac®; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education and business oriented application software. The Company also designs, develops and markets Mac and Windows users its family iPod® digital music players and its iPhone\x99 mobile communication device, along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party content through the Company\' iTunes Store\x99. The Company\' primary products are discussed below. Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and notebook computers, server and storage products, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party hardware products. The Company\' Mac desktop and portable systems feature Intel microprocessors, the Company\' Mac Version Leopard\x99 ("Mac Leopard") operating system that became available October and iLife® suite software for creation and management digital photography, music, movies, DVDs, and website. The Company\' transition from PowerPC Intel microprocessors for Mac systems was completed August , and its transition for Xserve® was completed November . There are potential risks and uncertainties associated with the transition Intel microprocessors, which are further discussed Item this Form - under the heading "Risk Factors." MacBook® Pro The MacBook Pro family notebook computers designed for professionals and advanced consumer users. First introduced January , the MacBook Pro includes -inch -inch widescreen display, built- iSight® video camera, Front Row\x99 with the Apple Remote, and the MagSafe® magnetic power adapter. June , the Company updated its MacBook Pro models include the latest Intel Core Duo processors and the Nvidia GeForce 8600M graphics controller. MacBook Pro includes 4GB 667MHz DDR2 main memory with MHz frontside bus, Serial ATA hard drive, and slot-loading double-layer SuperDrive®. addition, every MacBook Pro features -inch thin aluminum enclosure and includes AirPort Extreme® 11n wireless networking, Bluetooth +EDR, Gigabit ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Ethernet, USB and FireWire® ports, audio input and output ports, DVI video-out port, ExpressCard slot, scrolling trackpad, and backlit keyboard. MacBook® The MacBook designed for consumer and education users. First introduced May , the MacBook includes -inch widescreen display, built- iSight video camera and the MagSafe magnetic power adapter. May , the Company updated its MacBook models with faster Intel Core Duo processors running 16GHz, Intel integrated graphics, support for 4GB 667MHz DDR2 main memory, Serial ATA hard drive, and slot-loading Combo optical drive double-layer SuperDrive. addition, MacBook models include AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking, Bluetooth +EDR, Gigabit Ethernet, USB and FireWire ports, audio input and output ports, mini-DVI video output port, and scrolling trackpad. Mac® Pro The Mac Pro desktop computer targeted business and professional users and designed meet the performance, expansion, and networking needs the most demanding Mac user. The Mac Pro features two Intel Xeon dual-core quad-core processors running 0GHz, with 4MB and 8MB shared Level cache and independent 33GHz front-side buses, 667MHz fully buffered memory, and -bit wide memory architecture. The Mac Pro also features direct attach storage solution for snap- installation four 750GB Serial ATA hard drives for total 3TB internal storage. Every Mac Pro includes three full-length PCI Express expansion slots and one double-wide PCI Express graphics slot support double-wide graphics cards. The Mac Pro also includes dual Ethernet ports, optical digital input and output ports, analog audio input and output ports, and multiple FireWire , FireWire and USB ports. iMac® The iMac desktop computer targeted consumer, education and business customers. August , the Company updated the iMac include 0GHz, 4GHz 8GHz Intel Core Duo processors, MHz DDR2 SDRAM, faster graphics card using ATI Radeon ATI Radeon PRO graphics, and slot-loading double-layer SuperDrive. All iMac models include built- iSight video camera, AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking, Bluetooth +EDR, built- Gigabit Ethernet, USB and Fire Wire ports, and mini-DVI video out. Mac® mini February , the Company introduced the Intel-based Mac mini that includes Front Row with the Apple Remote. The Mac mini offers 1GB 667MHz memory expandable 2GB and either 83GHz 0GHz Intel processor. Every Mac mini includes built- Gigabit Ethernet, AirPort Extreme 11g wireless networking, Bluetooth +EDR, total four USB ports, and one FireWire port. Mac mini includes full-size DVI interface and VGA-out adapter connect variety displays, including televisions, and features both analog and digital audio outputs. Xserve® and Xserve RAID Storage System Xserve rack-mount server powered two dual-core -bit Intel Xeon processors running 0GHz and features Mac ® Server , which became available October . Xserve supports 32GB RAM, remote management and internal serial attached SCSI ("SAS") serial ATA ("SATA") storage drives 25TB, with optional internal hardware RAID. The Company\' Xserve RAID storage system delivers 5TB Fiber Channel attached hardware RAID storage capacity and also expanded support for Mac and heterogeneous environments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Music Products and Services The Company offers its iPod® line portable digital music players and related accessories Mac and Windows users. All iPods work with the Company\' iTunes® digital music management software ("iTunes software") available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. The Company also provides online service distribute third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows, movies, podcasts and iPod games through its iTunes Store. addition the Company\' own iPod accessories, thousands third-party iPod compatible products are available, either through the Company\' online and retail stores from third parties, including portable and desktop speaker systems, headphones, car radio solutions, voice recorders, cables and docks, power supplies and chargers, and carrying cases and armbands. iPod® shuffle The iPod shuffle weighs half ounce and features aluminum design and built- clip. The iPod shuffle contains 1GB flash memory capable holding songs and provides hours battery life. The iPod shuffle includes shuffle switch feature that allows users listen their music random order the order their playlist synced through iTunes. iPod shuffle works with iTunes\' patent-pending AutoFill option that automatically selects songs fill the iPod shuffle from user\' iTunes library. iPod® nano September , the Company introduced new version its flash-memory-based iPod nano featuring larger two-inch display with pixels per inch and new user interface featuring Cover Flow®. The new iPod nano comes all metal design made with anodized aluminum and polished stainless steel and has hours battery life. The iPod nano includes the Click Wheel, smaller and lighter design and brighter color screen than its predecessor, and new iPod games. The iPod nano available 4GB and 8GB configurations and variety colors. iPod® classic September , the Company introduced the new iPod classic. The iPod classic upgraded version the original iPod, the Company\' hard-drive based portable digital music player. The iPod classic available 80GB model capable holding , songs hours video and 160GB model capable holding , songs hours video. The iPod classic features hours battery life and includes new all-metal enclosure and -inch color screen that can display album artwork, photos, and video content including music videos, video and audio podcasts, short films, television shows, movies, and games. iPod® touch September , the Company introduced the iPod touch, new flash-memory-based iPod that thin and features the Company\' Multi-Touch\x99 user interface -inch widescreen display. The iPod touch includes - wireless networking and additional applications such Safari\x99, Google Search Yahoo! oneSearch, and the new iTunes - Music Store. The iPod touch available 8GB and configurations and features hours audio playback and five hours video playback. The iPod touch\' user interface based the Multi-Touch\x99 display allowing users control the device with touchscreen. iTunes® iTunes digital media player application for playing, downloading, and organizing digital music and video files. iTunes available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. Within iTunes, the user can connect the iTunes Store\x99, service that allows customers find, purchase, and download third-party digital music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows and movies, and iPod games. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' September , the Company introduced the iTunes - Music Store offering users the ability browse, search, preview, purchase, and download songs and albums from their iPod touch iPhone over - network. Customers can search the contents the store catalog locate works title, artist, album, browse the entire contents the store genre. Originally introduced the . April , the iTunes Store now serves customers countries. iPhone\x99 January , the Company announced iPhone \x99 , handheld device that combines single product mobile phone, widescreen iPod with touch controls, and Internet communications device. iPhone\' user interface based the Multi-Touch\x99 display allowing users control the device with touchscreen. iPhone lets users make calls tapping name number their address book, favorites list, call log well select and listen voicemail messages any order. iPhone also allows users purchase and download songs and albums from the iTunes - Music Store directly onto their iPhone and play their iTunes® content, including movies, television shows, music, photos and podcasts, with the touch finger. iPhone features desktop-class email, web browsing, searching, and maps. iPhone compatible with Mac and automatically syncs content from user\' iTunes library, well contacts, bookmarks, and email accounts. iPhone quad-band GSM phone featuring EDGE and - wireless technologies for data networking, Bluetooth , built- megapixel camera, -inch touch screen with - - resolution pixels per inch, and providing hours talk time, hours Internet use, hours video playback hours audio playback. & Mobility LLC (" & ") the exclusive . cellular network carrier for iPhone. The Company began shipping iPhone the . June , . November , , the Company began shipping iPhone the . and Germany, and expects ship the iPhone France November , . Limited (" "), -Mobile International & . (" -Mobile"), and France Telecom ("Orange") are the exclusive cellular network carriers for iPhone the ., Germany, and France, respectively. The Company has entered into agreements with each exclusive cellular network carrier related cellular network services and the purchase and sale iPhone and iPhone related products. These agreements entitle the Company receive certain payments from these carriers. addition the Company\' own iPhone accessories, third-party iPhone compatible products are available, either through the Company\' online and retail stores from third parties, including headsets, cables and docks, power supplies, and carrying cases. Peripheral Products The Company sells variety Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible peripheral products directly end-users through its retail and online stores, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various other computing products and supplies. Displays The Company manufactures family widescreen flat panel displays including the -inch Apple Cinema Display\x99, widescreen active-matrix LCD with - - pixel resolution, the -inch Apple Cinema Display with - - pixel resolution and the -inch Apple Cinema Display® with - - pixel resolution. These displays feature built- dual FireWire and dual USB ports and use the industry standard DVI interface for pure digital connection with the Company\' latest Mac Pro, MacBook Pro, Mac mini and MacBook systems. The Cinema Displays feature aluminum design with thin bezel, suspended aluminum stand that allows viewing angle adjustment. Apple \x99 January , the Company announced Apple , device that permits users wirelessly play iTunes content widescreen television. Compatible with Mac Windows-based computer, Apple includes either 40GB 160GB hard drive capable storing hours video, , songs, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' , photos, combination each and capable displaying content high definition resolution 720p. Apple connects broad range widescreen televisions and home theater systems and comes standard with high-definition multimedia interface, component video, and both analog and digital optical audio ports. Using high-speed AirPort® 11n wireless networking, Apple can auto-sync content from one computer stream content from five additional computers directly television. The Company began shipping Apple March . Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for education, creative professional, consumer, business and government customers, including Mac , the Company\' proprietary operating system software for the Mac; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. Operating System Software Mac ® built open-source UNIX-based foundation. Mac Leopard the sixth major release Mac and became available October . Leopard includes new features and introduces new desktop with Stacks, new way easily access files from the Dock; redesigned Finder\x99 that lets users quickly browse and share files between multiple Macs; Quick Look, new way instantly see files without opening application; Spaces\x99, intuitive new feature used create groups applications and instantly switch between them; and Time Machine\x99, effortless way automatically back everything Mac. Application Software iLife® \' August , the Company introduced iLife \' , the latest release its consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite, which features iPhoto®, iDVD®, GarageBand®, iWeb\x99, iTunes® and iMovie® \' . All these applications are Universal, meaning that they run natively both Intel and PowerPC-based Mac computers ("Universal"). iPhoto® the Company\' consumer-oriented digital photo software application. iPhoto \' adds new features for organizing and browsing photos, including event-based grouping, new professional quality image editing tools, and enables publishing Mac Web Gallery Mac Web Gallery, fully integrated with iPhoto \' and iMovie \' , allowing Mac users share photos and movies over the web. iPhoto \' features print, photo book, greeting card, and calendar layout tools and integrated online ordering services. iMovie® \' new version the Company\' consumer-oriented digital video editing software application. iMovie® \' provides new tools for quick movie creation and video enhancements, including transitions, titles, music and sound effects. Projects iMovie® \' can also published Mac Web Gallery. iDVD® the Company\' consumer-oriented software application that enables users turn iMovie files, QuickTime® files, and digital pictures into interactive DVDs that can played most consumer DVD players. iDVD \' features new Apple-designed menu themes both widescreen ( : ) and standard ( : ) formats. GarageBand® the Company\' consumer-oriented music creation software application that allows users play, record and create music using simple interface. With GarageBand, software instruments, digital audio recordings and looping tracks can arranged and edited create songs. GarageBand \' allows users export finished songs their iTunes library, publish podcast through iWeb and Mac that includes artwork, sound effects, and music jingles. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' iWeb\x99 allows users create online photo albums, blogs and podcasts, and customize websites using editing tools. iWeb\' offers new features make websites more interactive adding live web widgets, which are snippets live content from other websites, such Google Maps, targeted ads using Google AdSense and photos movies from Mac Web Galleries. iLife \' also includes iTunes®, the Company\' digital music jukebox software application that allows users purchase variety digital content available through the Company\' iTunes Store. iTunes organizes content using searching, browsing, and playlists, and provides integration with the complete family iPods and iPhone. iWork\x99 \' August , the Company introduced iWork \' , new version the Company\' integrated productivity suite designed help users create, present, and publish documents, presentations and spreadsheets. iWork \' includes updates Pages® \' for word processing and page layout, Keynote® \' for presentations, and introduces Numbers \' for spreadsheets. All these programs are Universal and feature advanced image tools, including enhanced photo masking, resizable picture frames and edges, and Instant Alpha, which easily removes the background photo. Final Cut Studio® April , the Company introduced Final Cut Studio® , upgraded version the Company\' video production suite designed for professionals. Final Cut Studio features Final Cut Pro® for video editing, DVD Studio Pro® for DVD authoring, Motion for real-time motion graphics, Soundtrack® Pro for audio editing and sound design, Color for color grading and finishing, and Compressor for encoding media multiple formats. All these applications are Universal. The Company also offers Final Cut Express , consumer version the Company\' movie making software. Logic® Studio September , the Company introduced Logic Studio, comprehensive suite professional tools used musicians and professionals create, perform, and record music. Logic Studio features Logic® Pro , upgraded version the Company\' music creation and audio production software; MainStage\x99, new live performance application; Soundtrack® Pro , professional audio post production software; Studio Instruments, made instrument plug-ins; Studio Effects, with professional effect plug-ins; and studio Sound Library. addition, the Company offers Logic® Express , standalone version the Logic® Pro application that provides easy entry into professional music production. All these applications are Universal. FileMaker® Pro The FileMaker Pro database software Universal and offers relational databases and desktop- -web publishing capabilities. July , the Company introduced FileMaker Pro featuring new Quick Start screen, which stores users\' favorites and gives them access the new videos the FileMaker Learning Center; Conditional Formatting, which highlights data based parameters the user sets; and the ability email link other FileMaker users instantly access database. Internet Software and Services The Company focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' products and services. The Company\' Internet solutions adhere many industry standards provide optimized user experience. Safari\x99 October , the Company made available Safari , web browser compatible with Windows , Windows Vista and Mac . Safari includes built- Google search; SnapBack\x99 instantly return ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' search results; way name, organize and present bookmarks; tabbed browsing; and automatic "pop- " blocking. QuickTime® QuickTime, the Company\' multimedia software for Mac Windows-based computers, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet and playback high-quality audio and video computers. QuickTime features encoding and can automatically determine user\' connection speed ensure they are getting the highest-quality content stream possible. QuickTime also delivers multi-channel audio and supports audio formats, including AIFF, WAV, MOV, MP4 (AAC only), CAF, and AAC ADTS. The Company offers several other QuickTime products. QuickTime Pro, suite software tools, allows creation and editing Internet-ready audio and video files. QuickTime Pro allows users create video, capture audio and video, create multi-channel audio, and export multiple files while playing back editing video. .Mac® The Company\' Mac offering suite Internet services that for annual fee provides Mac users with powerful set Internet tools Mac services include: internet message access protocol ("IMAP") mail, -free email service; website hosting for publishing web sites from iWeb; iDisk, virtual hard drive accessible anywhere with Internet access;.Mac Sync, which keeps Safari bookmarks, iCal® calendars, Address Book information, Keychain®, and Mac Mail preferences - -date across multiple Mac computers; and Groups which allows people use group email list and website. The current version Mac provides combined iDisk and email storage 10GB for individuals and 20GB for families. August , the Company announced updates its Mac online service, including Mac Web Gallery, new service for Mac members share photos and movies the Internet Mac Web Gallery lets members share photos and movies directly from iLife \' with anyone Mac, iPhone. Wireless Connectivity and Networking AirPort Extreme® AirPort Extreme the Company\' wireless networking technology. AirPort Extreme Base Station includes 11n - wireless networking and supports users. Air Port Extreme operates either GHz GHz frequencies, providing compatibility with most - devices. The current AirPort Extreme Base Station works with both Mac and Windows computers, includes multiple Gigabit Ethernet ports and supports USB printer sharing allow multiple users wirelessly share USB printers connected directly the base station. All Macs have either built- optional wireless networking client hardware and software that communicates with Airport Extreme Airport Express Base Stations. AirPort® Express® AirPort Express the first 11g standard mobile base station that can plugged directly into the wall for wireless Internet connections and USB printing. Airport Express also features analog and digital audio outputs that can connected stereo and AirTunes\x99 music networking software that works with iTunes, giving users way wirelessly stream iTunes music from their Mac Windows-based computer any room the house. AirPort Express features single piece design weighing ounces. Product Support and Services AppleCare® offers range support options for the Company\' customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan fee-based service that typically includes three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. Markets and Distribution The Company\' customers are primarily the education, creative professional, consumer, and business markets. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. individual customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its own sales force and retail and online stores. Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The markets for consumer electronics, personal computers, related software and peripheral products, digital music devices and related services, and mobile communication devices are highly competitive. These markets are characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software that have substantially increased the capabilities and use personal computers, other digital electronic devices, and mobile communication devices that have resulted the frequent introduction new products with competitive price, feature, and performance characteristics. Over the past several years, price competition these markets has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\' financial condition and operating results can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors include price, product features, relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software and peripherals, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' products. The Company\' music products and services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company believes currently retains competitive advantage offering superior innovation and integration the entire solution including the hardware (personal computer and iPod), software (iTunes), and distribution content (iTunes Store and iTunes - Music Store). However, the Company expects competition this space intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\' approach tightly integrating these elements within their own offerings , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more integrated than those they currently offer. Some these current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\' offerings. The Company currently focused market opportunities related mobile communication devices including the iPhone. The mobile communications industry highly competitive with several large, well-funded, and experienced competitors. The Company faces competition from mobile communication device companies that may attempt imitate some the iPhone\' functions and applications within their own smart phones. This industry characterized aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company\' future financial condition and operating results are substantially dependent the Company\' ability continue develop improvements the Mac platform and the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' hardware, software and services related consumer electronic devices, including iPods, and mobile communication devices, including iPhone. Raw Materials Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including, but not limited , microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability constraints and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components uncommon the rest the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delayed shipment completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected suppliers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. The Company\' purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial condition. this time, such vendors include Agere Systems, Inc., Ambit Microsystems Corporation, Amperex Technology Limited, ASUSTeK Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Atheros Communications Inc., Optronics Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corporation, Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Hon Hai Precision Industry ., Ltd., Infineon Technologies , Intel Corporation, Inventec Appliances Corporation, . Phillips ., Ltd., Matsushita, Murata Manufacturing ., Ltd., National Semiconductor Corporation, NVIDIA Corp., Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Renesas Semiconductor . Ltd., Samsung Electronics, Sony Corporation, Synaptics, Inc., Texas Instruments, and Toshiba Corporation. Certain these vendors are the sole-sourced supplier components and manufacturing outsourcing for many the Company\' key products, including but not limited , assembly most the Company\' portable Mac computers, iPods, and iPhones. Research and Development Because the personal computer, consumer electronics, and mobile communication industries are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services, and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas computer hardware and peripherals, consumer electronics products, mobile communication devices, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and Internet services and solutions. The Company may expand the range its product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and acquisition third-party business and technology. The Company\' research and development expenditures totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, iPods, iPhone, peripherals, software, and services. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries for "Apple," the Apple logo, "Macintosh," "Mac," "iPod," "iTunes," "iTunes Store," "iPhone," and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third-parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The . represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\' net sales came from sales customers inside the . Final assembly products sold the Company currently performed the Company\' manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California; Fullerton, California; Taiwan; the Republic Korea ("Korea"); the People\' Republic China ("China"); and the Czech Republic. Currently, the supply and manufacture many critical components used the Company\' products performed sole-sourced third-party vendors the ., China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products, including MacBook Pro, MacBook, iPod, and iPhone, performed sole-sourced third-party vendors China. Margins sales the Company\' products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters compared other quarters its fiscal year due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year. This historical pattern should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty most its hardware products, including Mac computers, iPods and iPhones. The basic warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\' hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most the Company\' hardware products all its major markets. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DE19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Backlog the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions dealers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. the future, these laws could have material adverse effect the Company. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various countries within Europe and Asia, certain Canadian provinces and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition operating results. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and additional , temporary equivalent employees and contractors. Available Information The Company\' Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available the Company\' website http://www apple com investor when such reports are available the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\' Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC http://www sec gov. The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\' references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. The matters relating the Company\' past stock option practices and the restatement the Company\' consolidated financial statements may result additional litigation and government enforcement actions. The findings from the Company\' investigation into its past stock option granting practices and the resulting restatement prior financial statements its Form - have exposed the Company greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' described Part , Item , "Legal Proceedings," several derivative complaints and class action complaint have been filed state and federal courts against the Company and certain current and former directors and executive officers pertaining allegations relating past stock option grants. The Company has provided the results its investigation the SEC and the United States Attorney\' Office for the Northern District California, and the Company has responded their requests for documents and additional information. The Company intends continue provide its full cooperation. April , , the SEC filed enforcement action against two former officers the Company. announcing the lawsuit, the SEC stated that would not bring enforcement action against the Company based part the Company\' "swift, extensive, and extraordinary cooperation the Commission\' investigation." According the SEC\' statement, the Company\' "cooperation consisted , among other things, prompt self-reporting, independent internal investigation, the sharing the results that investigation with the government, and the implementation new controls designed prevent the recurrence fraudulent conduct." assurance can given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings, government enforcement actions relating the Company\' past stock option practices. These and related matters have required, and will continue require, the Company incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax, and other professional services, and may divert management\' attention from the Company\' business. the Company subject adverse findings, could required pay damages and penalties and might face additional remedies that could harm its financial condition and operating results. Global markets for personal computers, digital music devices, mobile communication devices, and related peripherals and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change. the Company unable compete effectively these markets, its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company competes global markets that are highly competitive and characterized aggressive price cutting, with its resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products and products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company\' ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction new innovative products and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops virtually the entire solution for its personal computers, consumer electronics, and mobile communication devices, including the hardware, operating system, several software applications, and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments research and development. contrast, many the Company\' competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins, its financial condition and operating results may materially adversely affected. the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces significant number competitors, many which have broader product lines and larger installed customer bases. There has also been trend toward consolidation that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition certain its key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. increasing number Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company\' financial condition and operating results substantially depend its ability continually develop improvements the Mac platform maintain perceived design and functional advantages. Use unauthorized copies the Mac other companies\' hardware products may result decreased demand for the Company\' hardware products, and materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company currently focused opportunities related digital content distribution, consumer electronic devices, including iPod and Apple , and mobile communication devices, including iPhone. The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources, well established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships, and also competes with illegitimate ways obtain digital content. The Company expects competition intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\' approach providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. Some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience, and they may able provide such products and services little profit even loss. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that effectively compete. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success new product introductions depends number factors, including timely and successful completion development efforts, market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions will have financial condition and operating results. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees for orders products and components that have been cancelled. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment exists, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its inventory, asset, and related provisions are currently adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the global personal computer, consumer electronics, and mobile communication industries, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory asset related charges. Such charges have had, and may have, material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient inventories components products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' manufacturing requirements for days. The Company\' financial condition and operating results have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results depend upon the Company\' ability obtain key components, including microprocessors and NAND flash memory, favorable prices and sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains certain key components, including microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs"), from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including NAND flash memory, DRAM memory, and certain LCDs, are subject times industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply critical components favorable pricing, but there guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements favorable terms upon expiration otherwise obtain favorable pricing the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can have material adverse effect its financial condition and operating results. The Company expects experience decreases its gross margin percentage fiscal year , compared levels achieved during fiscal year , due part current and expected future price increases for certain components. See "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Gross Margin." The Company\' new products often use custom components from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. Where component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\' yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest the personal computer, consumer electronics mobile communication industries. Continued availability these components acceptable prices may affected producers decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component for new existing product were delayed constrained, such components were available only significantly higher prices, the Company\' financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Most the Company\' components and products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers, most which are located outside the . significant concentration this outsourced manufacturing currently performed only few third-party manufacturers, often single locations. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity products services, the Company\' flexibility respond changing conditions. addition, the Company relies third-party manufacturers adhere the Company\' supplier code conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could have material adverse effect the Company\' reputation, financial condition and operating results. Final assembly the Company\' products currently performed the Company\' manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors California, Korea, China and the Czech Republic. Currently, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' the supply and manufacture many critical components performed sole-sourced third-party vendors the ., China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Sole-sourced third- party vendors China perform final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, iPods and iPhones. manufacturing logistics these locations disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues, the Company\' financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company relies third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their digital content through the Company\' iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights this content. The Company\' licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers currently may the future offer competing products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company\' access , increase the total cost , such content. the Company unable continue offer wide variety content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach, the Company\' financial condition and operating results may materially adversely affected. Many third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management ("DRM") and other security solutions. these requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose legislation that would force the Company license its DRM, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and could also affect arrangements with the Company\' content providers. The Company relies access third-party patents and intellectual property, and the Company\' future results could materially adversely affected alleged found have infringed intellectual property rights. Many the Company\' products are designed include third-party intellectual property, and may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms, there assurance that the necessary licenses would available acceptable terms all. Because technological changes the global personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents other intellectual property rights third parties. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing such rights. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can consume significant time and expense, and several pending claims are various stages evaluation. certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements, although assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. there temporary permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain products successful claim infringement against the Company requires pay royalties third party, the Company\' financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and litigation related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item , "Legal Proceedings." management\' opinion, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any known current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights that would individually the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition and operating results. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item , "Legal Proceedings," should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the Company\' financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. With the June introduction iPhone, the Company has begun compete with mobile communication device companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless the scope validity such patents the merits any potential patent claims competitors, the Company may have engage protracted litigation, enter into expensive agreements settlements and modify its products. Any these events could have material adverse impact the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company\' products experience quality problems from time time that can result decreased sales and operating margin. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the software\' operation. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. Failure could result lost revenue, harm reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have material adverse impact the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\' profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\' software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain the Company\' other products, including third-party content from the iTunes Store. Gross margins the Company\' hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time result product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company\' direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. addition, the Company\' gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability, may materially adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, new product announcements. The Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely affect the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Furthermore, the Company has typically experienced greater net sales the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared other quarters the fiscal year due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners, could have material adverse impact the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company currently relies single cellular network carrier for iPhone each the ., ., Germany and France. & , , -Mobile and Orange are the Company\' cellular network carriers for iPhone the ., ., Germany and France, respectively. these carriers cannot successfully compete with other carriers their markets for any reason, including but not limited the quality and coverage wireless voice and data services, performance and timely build-out advanced wireless networks, and pricing and terms ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' end-user contracts, iPhone sales may adversely affected. Because the Company\' agreements require each carrier make revenue-generating payments the Company, carrier\' non-performance under termination agreement, its inability attract and retain iPhone customers, could have material adverse effect the Company\' future financial condition and operating results. , contrary the Company\' license agreements product specifications, iPhone "unlocked" from authorized carrier\' network, the Company would not receive payments related that iPhone from such carrier, which could have material adverse effect the Company\' future financial condition and operating results. The Company may choose enter into arrangements with carriers other countries regions, and the same risks described above would also apply those arrangements. The Company subject risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related mobile communications devices. Laws and regulations related mobile communications devices the many jurisdictions which the Company operates are extensive and subject change. Such changes, which could include but are not limited restrictions production, manufacture, distribution, and use the device, locking the device carrier\' network, mandating the use the device more than one carrier\' network, may have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Mobile communication devices, such iPhone, are subject certification and regulation governmental and standardization bodies, well cellular network carriers for use their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result additional testing requirements, product modifications delays product shipment dates, which may have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Failure information technology systems and breaches data security could adversely affect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\' operations causing delays cancellation customer orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures. There can assurance, however, that system failure data security breach will not have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company\' stock price may volatile. The Company\' stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. The stock market whole has also experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that may have been unrelated these companies\' operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. the Company fails meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. Economic conditions, political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company\' operations and performance depend significantly worldwide economic conditions. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and the global economy, and thus may have strong negative effect the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. The Company\' business operations are subject interruption natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company\' products, make difficult ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' impossible for the Company make and deliver products its customers receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company\' supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could negatively affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\' manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses and significant recovery time could required resume operations, the Company\' financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. The Company\' success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the Company\' future success depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and key employees technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\' key employees are located. The Company has relied equity awards one means for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options have resulted increased stock-based compensation expense, which has caused the Company reduce the number stock-based awards issued employees. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. Unfavorable results legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed Part , Item , "Legal Proceedings." The Company also subject other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. Results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Regardless its merit, litigation may both time-consuming and disruptive the Company\' operations and cause significant expense and diversion management attention. Should the Company fail prevail certain matters, should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the Company\' financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\' business subject the risks international operations. The Company derives large portion its revenue from its international operations. result, its financial condition and operating results could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus local currencies. Margins sales the Company\' products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non- . dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely affect demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency-denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company modify international pricing and affect the value the Company\' foreign denominated sales and may also increase the cost product components. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The Company has used derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions, hedge exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial effect resulting from unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item , "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk," and Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," Note , "Summary Significant Accounting Polices" and Note , "Financial Instruments" Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company\' retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through September , , the Company had opened retail stores. The Company\' retail initiative has required substantial fixed investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with terms ranging from years, the majority which are for years. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\' more typical retail stores. substantial decline sales, the closure poor performance individual multiple stores, the termination the retail initiative could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could have material adverse impact the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Many factors unique retail operations, some which are beyond the Company\' control, pose risks and uncertainties that could have material adverse effect the Retail segment\' future results, cause its actual results differ from anticipated results and have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative effect general retail activity, inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability sell third-party products adequate margins, failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations outside the ., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value retail inventory, and inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. The Company\' future performance depends support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed and maintained for the Company\' hardware products, customers may choose not buy the Company\' products. The Company believes decisions customers purchase the Company\' hardware products are often based the availability third-party application software, such Microsoft Office. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain applications for the Company\' hardware products timely basis all, and discontinuance delay these applications could have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company believes the availability third-party applications depends part the developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus Windows-based products. This analysis may based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such applications. the Company\' minority share the global personal computer market causes developers question the Company\' prospects, developers could less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company\' development its own software applications may also negatively affect ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' the decisions third-party developers, such Microsoft and Adobe, develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. Mac Leopard, which became available October , includes new feature that enables Intel-based Mac systems run Windows and Windows Vista. This feature may deter developers from creating software applications for Mac such applications are already available for the Windows platform. During calendar year , the Company transitioned its Mac line computers from PowerPC Intel microprocessors. The Company depends third-party developers timely develop current and future Universal applications. Universal version Microsoft Office and certain other important applications are currently not available. The lack Universal applications that run Intel-based Mac systems could have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\' ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and may the future invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, insufficient revenue offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return capital, and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\' due diligence. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company\' future operating performance depends the performance distributors and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly end-users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online and retail stores. iPhone distributed through the Company and its exclusive cellular network carriers\' distribution channels. Many resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected the past weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion the Company\' direct sales conflicting with their business interests distributors and resellers the Company\' products. Such perception could discourage resellers from investing resources the distribution and sale the Company\' products lead them limit cease distribution those products. The Company\' financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens, resellers stopped distributing the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\' stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require substantial investment while providing assurance return incremental revenue. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivable and prepayments related long-term supply agreements. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. substantial majority the Company\' outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables resulting from the sale the Company components vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has entered into long-term supply agreements secure supply NAND flash-memory and has prepaid total $ billion under these agreements, which $ million had been used September , . While the Company has procedures monitor and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company subject risks associated with laws and regulations related health, safety and environmental protection. The Company\' products and services, and the production and distribution those goods and services, are subject variety laws and regulations. These may require the Company offer customers the ability return product the end its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia, certain Canadian provinces and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Changes the Company\' tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\' future effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. The Company subject the continuous examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and coverage insurance. For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because cost and availability. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits may have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia Pacific region. The major facility leases are generally for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leased space includes approximately million square feet retail space, majority which the . Lease terms for retail space range from years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns , square-foot manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also houses customer support call center. The Company also owns , square feet facilities Sacramento, California that include warehousing and distribution operations, well customer support call center. addition, the Company owns approximately million square feet facilities for research and development and corporate functions Cupertino, California, including approximately million square feet purchased and for the future development the Company\' second corporate campus Cupertino, California, and approximately , square feet for data center Newark, California. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims September , , the end the annual period covered this report, that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition operating results. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\' results operations. Apple Computer, Inc. . Burst com, Inc. The Company filed action for declaratory judgment against defendant Burst com, Inc. January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The Company seeks declaratory judgment that . Patent Nos. , , , , , , , , and , , ("Burst patents") are invalid and not infringed the Company. Burst filed answer and counterclaim April , adding infringement allegations relating . Patent . , , . Apple counterclaimed for declaratory judgment that each these patents invalid, not infringed and unenforceable. Burst alleges that the following Apple products and services infringe the four patents issue: iTunes Store, iPod devices, iTunes software, iLife software (GarageBand, iMovie, iWeb) separately and conjunction with the Mac service and Apple computers sold with running iTunes iLife. The Burst patents allegedly relate methods and devices used for faster-than-real-time transmission compressed audio and video files. The court issued its claim construction ruling May , . The Company filed motions for summary judgment invalidity January , and July , . The court held hearing those pending motions September , and has not issued decision. The Company filed motions for summary judgment and partial summary judgment relating enablement, indefiniteness and laches October , . Trial set for February , . Bader . Anderson, . Plaintiff filed this purported shareholder derivative action against the Company and each its then current executive officers and members its Board Directors May , Santa Clara County Superior Court asserting claims for breach fiduciary duty, material misstatements and omissions and violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition). The complaint alleged that the Company\' March , , proxy statement was false and misleading for failure disclose certain information relating the Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan, which was approved shareholders the annual meeting held April , . Plaintiff, who ostensibly brings suit the Company\' behalf, made demand the Board Directors and alleged that such demand was excused. The complaint sought injunctive and other relief for purported injury the Company. July , , plaintiff filed amended complaint alleging that, addition the purported derivative claims, adoption the bonus plan and distribution the proxy statement describing that plan also inflicted injury her directly individual shareholder. January , , the Court sustained defendants\' demurrer ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' the amended complaint, with leave amend. Plaintiff filed second amended complaint February , , and the Company filed demurrer. After hearing June , , the Court sustained the demurrer without leave amend the non-director officers and with leave amend the directors. July , , plaintiff filed third amended complaint, which purported bring claims derivatively well directly behalf class common stockholders who have been will harmed virtue the allegedly misleading proxy statement. addition reasserting prior causes action, the third amended complaint included claim that the Company violated the terms the plan, and claim for waste related restricted stock unit grants certain officers and and option grant the Company\' CEO January . The Company filed demurrer the third amended complaint. January , , the Court sustained the Company\' demurrer with leave amend. May , , plaintiff filed fourth amended complaint. The Company filed demurrer the fourth amended complaint, which the court sustained, without leave amend, October , . October , , the Court entered final judgment favor defendant and ordered the case dismissed with prejudice. Birdsong . Apple Computer, Inc. This action alleges that the Company\' iPod music players, and the ear bud headphones sold with them, are inherently defective design and are sold without adequate warnings concerning the risk noise-induced hearing loss iPod users. The Birdsong action was initially filed January , the United States District Court for the Western District Louisiana asserting Louisiana causes action behalf purported Louisiana class iPod purchasers. similar action (Patterson . Apple Computer, Inc.) was filed January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California asserting California causes action behalf purported class all iPod purchasers within the four-year period before January , . The Birdsong action was transferred the Northern District California, and the Patterson action was dismissed. amended complaint was subsequently filed Birdsong, dropping the Louisiana law-based claims and adding California law-based claims equivalent those Patterson. After the Company filed motion dismiss November , , plaintiffs agreed not oppose the motion and filed second amended complaint January , . That complaint alleges California law-based claims for breaches implied and express warranties, violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and negligent misrepresentation behalf putative nationwide class and Louisiana law-based claim for redhibition for Louisiana sub-class. March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the California law based claims. The court held hearing the motion dismiss June , but has not yet issued ruling. similar complaint, Royer-Brennan . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc., was filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada, February , , seeking authorization institute class action behalf iPod purchasers Quebec. the request plaintiffs\' counsel, the court has postponed class certification proceedings this action indefinitely. Branning . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs originally filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court February , . The initial complaint alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") regarding variety purportedly unfair and unlawful conduct including, but not limited , allegedly selling used computers new and failing honor warranties. Plaintiffs also brought causes action for misappropriation trade secrets, breach contract and violation the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiffs requested unspecified damages and other relief. May , , the Court granted the Company\' motion transfer the case Santa Clara County Superior Court. May , , plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding two new named plaintiffs and three new causes action including claim for treble damages under the Cartwright Act (California Business & Professions Code § ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' seq.) and claim for false advertising. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint, which the Court sustained its entirety November , . The Court granted plaintiffs leave amend and they filed amended complaint December , . Plaintiffs\' amended complaint added three plaintiffs and alleged many the same factual claims the previous complaints, such alleged selling used equipment new, alleged failure honor warranties and service contracts for the consumer plaintiffs, and alleged fraud related the opening the Apple retail stores. Plaintiffs continued assert causes action for unfair competition (§ ), violations the CLRA, breach contract, misappropriation trade secrets, violations the Cartwright Act, and alleged new causes action for fraud, conversion, and breach the implied covenant good faith and fair dealing. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint January , , which the Court sustained March , sixteen seventeen causes action. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding one new plaintiff. The Company filed demurrer, which was granted part September , . Plaintiffs filed further amended complaint September , . October , , the Company filed answer denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. European Commission Investigation The European Commission investigating certain matters relating the iTunes Stores Europe. The European Commission had previously notified the Company that was investigating claims made Which?, United Kingdom (" .") consumer association, that the Company violating competition law charging more for online music the . than Eurozone countries and preventing . consumers from purchasing online music from the iTunes Stores for Eurozone countries. The Which? claims were originally lodged with the . Office Fair Trading, which subsequently referred them the European Commission. March , , the European Commission issued Statements Objections the major record labels, Apple Inc. and iTunes . the Statements Objections, the Commission challenges provisions the agreements pursuant which each major record company authorizes iTunes . distribute digital music downloads through the iTunes Store. The Commission contends that, because these provisions, residents the European Economic Area are only permitted buy music from the iTunes Store for the country that issued the customer\' credit card. The Commission contends that these provisions are territorial sales restrictions which violate Article the European Community Treaty. The Commission seeks fines and behavioral relief. The Company filed its responses the Statements Objections June , . hearing the Statements Objections took place Brussels, Belgium September , . Gordon . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action August , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division, behalf purported nationwide class consumers who purchased 65W Power Adapters for iBooks and Powerbooks between November and the present. The complaint alleges various problems with the 65W Adapter, including fraying, sparking, and premature failure. Plaintiffs allege violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and breach warranties. The complaint seeks damages and equitable relief. The Company filed answer October , denying the material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Harvey . Apple Inc. Plaintiff filed this action August , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patent . , , entitled "Recharger for use with portable electronic device and which includes proximally located light emitting ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END device" and . Patent . , , entitled "Recharger for use with portable electronic device and which includes connector terminus for communicating with rechargeable batteries contained within the device." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment noninfringement and invalidity. Honeywell International, Inc., . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs Honeywell International, Inc. and Honeywell Intellectual Properties, Inc. filed this action October , the United States District Court Delaware alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . Patent , , entitled "Directional Diffuser for Liquid Crystal Display." Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer December , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has tendered the case several liquid crystal display manufacturer suppliers. May , the Court stayed the case against the Company and the other non-manufacturer defendants. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint November , adding additional defendants and expanding the scope the accused products. Given the stay, the Company\' response the amended complaint not yet due. Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation (formerly Karant . Jobs, . and Related Actions) (Federal Action) June , , putative derivative action captioned Karant . Jobs, . . , was filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division. number related actions were filed the subsequent weeks and have been consolidated into single action captioned Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation , Master File . - - - before the Hon. Jeremy Fogel. The actions were filed after the Company\' announcement June , that internal investigation had discovered irregularities related the issuance certain stock option grants made between and , that special committee the Company\' outside directors had retained independent counsel perform investigation and that the Company had informed the Securities and Exchange Commission. The action purports assert claims behalf the Company against several current and former executive officers and members the Board Directors alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain defendants\' profits, failing properly account for and take tax deductions for those grants, insider trading, and issuing false financial statements. The Company named nominal defendant. The consolidated complaint alleges various causes action under federal and California law, including claims for unjust enrichment, breach fiduciary duty, violation the California Corporations Code, abuse control, gross mismanagement, rescission, constructive fraud and waste corporate assets, well claims under Sections ( ), ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act. Plaintiffs seek damages, disgorgement, restitution and imposition constructive trust. Consolidated Shareholder Derivative Complaint was filed December , , and First Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint was filed March , . Defendants filed motion dismiss April , , which was heard September , . June , , the Company\' Board Directors approved resolution appointing Special Litigation Committee make all decisions relating options litigation. Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation (formerly Plumbers and Pipefitters . Jobs, . and Related Actions) (State Action); Boston Retirement Board . Apple Computer, Inc. July , , putative derivative action captioned Plumbers and Pipefitters . Jobs, . . , was filed California Superior Court for the County Santa Clara. number related actions were filed the subsequent weeks, and have been consolidated into single action captioned Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation , . :06CV066692, assigned the Hon. Joseph Huber. These actions purport assert claims behalf the Company against several current and former executive officers and members the Board Directors alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DI19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' defendants\' profits, failing properly account for and take tax deductions for those grants and issuing false financial statements. The Company named nominal defendant. consolidated complaint was filed October , , alleging variety causes action under California law, including claims for unjust enrichment, breach fiduciary duty, violation the California Corporations Code, abuse control, accounting, constructive trust, rescission, deceit, gross mismanagement and waste corporate assets. December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion stay these actions. November , , the Boston Retirement Board, purported shareholder, filed petition for writ mandate against the Company California Superior Court for the County Santa Clara County ( Boston Retirement Board . Apple Computer Inc. ). The petition sought compel the Company allow inspection certain corporate records relating the Company\' option practices and the Special Committee\' investigation. January , , the Company filed demurrer the petition. The Court entered order overruling the demurrer March , . The Company filed its answer the petition April , . The trial took place September , . The Court granted the petition for inspection but narrowed the scope the records produced. Apple iPod Nano Products Liability Litigation (formerly Wimmer . Apple Computer, Inc.; Moschella, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Calado, . . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Kahan, ., . Apple Computer, Inc .; Jennings, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Rappel . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Mayo . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Valencia . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Williamson . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Sioson . Apple Computer, Inc. Beginning October , , eight complaints were filed various United States District Courts and two complaints were filed California State Court alleging that the Company\' iPod nano was defectively designed that scratches excessively during normal use, rendering the screen unreadable. The federal actions were coordinated the United States District Court for the Northern District California and assigned the Hon. Ronald Whyte pursuant April , order the Judicial Panel Multidistrict Litigation. Plaintiffs filed First Consolidated and Amended Master Complaint September , , alleging violations California and other states\' consumer protection and warranty laws and claiming unjust enrichment. The Master Complaint alleges two putative plaintiff classes: ( ) all . residents (excluding California residents) who purchased iPod nano that was not manufactured designed using processes necessary ensure normal resistance scratching the screen; and ( ) all iPod nano purchasers other than . residents who purchased iPod nano that was not manufactured designed using processes necessary ensure normal resistance scratching the screen. The Company answered the Master Complaint November , . The two California State Court actions were coordinated May , , and assigned the Hon. Carl West Los Angeles Superior Court. Plaintiffs filed Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint June , , alleging violations California state consumer protection, unfair competition, false advertising and warranty laws and claiming unjust enrichment. The Consolidated Complaint alleges putative plaintiff class all California residents who own iPod nano containing manufacturing defect that results the nano being susceptible excessive scratching. The Company answered the Consolidated Amended Complaint October , . Two similar complaints, Carpentier . Apple Canada, Inc ., and Royer-Brennan . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc . were filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada October , and November , , respectively, seeking authorization institute class actions behalf iPod nano purchasers Quebec. The Royer-Brennan file was stayed May favor the Carpentier file. similar complaint, Mund . Apple Canada Inc. and Apple Computer, Inc. , was filed Ontario, Canada January , seeking authorization institute class action behalf iPod nano purchasers Canada. Apple Canada Inc. and Apple Computer, Inc. have served Notices Intent Defend. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DI19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Individual Networks, LLC . Apple, Inc. Plaintiff filed this action against the Company April , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent . , , , entitled "Method and System for Providing Customized Media List." Plaintiff alleges certain features the iTunes store infringe the patent. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer July , , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment noninfringement and invalidity, well counterclaim against Individual Networks LLC for infringement . Patent . , , . The Markman hearing set for October , , and trial scheduled for November , . Intertainer, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff filed this action December , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement the Company and others . Patent number , , entitled "Digital Entertainment Service Platform." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer February , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment noninfringement and invalidity. Lenzi . Apple Canada, Inc.; Wolfe . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc.; Hirst . Apple Canada, Inc.; Hamilton . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc. Plaintiff filed purported class action June , , Superior Court, Montreal, Quebec, Canada allegedly behalf Quebec customers claiming false advertising and breach warranty relating iPod battery life. Plaintiff sought authorization institute class action behalf Generations , and iPod owners Quebec. February , , the Court dismissed plaintiff\' motion for authorization institute class action. Plaintiff has appealed this ruling. Two similar complaints relative iPod battery life, Wolfe . Apple and Hirst . Apple , were filed Toronto, Ontario, Canada August , and September , , respectively. Counsel subsequently amended the complaint, now called Waddell . Apple . The Waddell lawsuit brought behalf all Canadian purchasers other than Quebec purchasers. January , , the Company filed its statement defence the Waddell complaint. addition, similar complaint regarding iPod battery life, Hamilton . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc. was filed Calgary, Alberta, Canada October , , purportedly behalf all purchasers iPods Alberta, Canada. The complaint was served September , . The Company has reached settlement this matter and the parties have requested preliminary court approval for the settlement. Settlement this matter will not have material effect the Company\' financial condition operating results. Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Santos . Apple Computer, Inc. (Santa Clara County Superior Court) The Macadam action was filed late asserting various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. The complaint requested unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer December , denying all allegations and asserting numerous defenses. October , , Macadam was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order reinstate reseller, which the Court denied. The Court denied Macadam\' motion for preliminary injunction December , . December , , Macadam filed for Chapter bankruptcy the Northern District California, which placed stay the litigation Macadam. The Company filed claim the bankruptcy proceedings February , . The Macadam bankruptcy case was converted Chapter (liquidation) April , . The Company has reached settlement Macadam\' claims against the Company with the Chapter Bankruptcy Trustee. The Bankruptcy Court ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DI19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' approved the settlement July , over the objection Tom Santos, Macadam\' principal. Santos appealed the ruling approving the settlement, but the district court denied the appeal. Santos has appealed the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals. December , , Tom Santos filed Fifth Amended Complaint his own behalf (not behalf Macadam) alleging fraud, violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising) and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act. The Company filed demurrer Santos\' amended complaint and special motion strike the defamation cause action January , . The Court sustained the demurrer part but denied the special motion strike. Santos filed Sixth Amended Complaint July , . The Company filed demurrer, which was granted September , . Santos filed Seventh Amended Complaint late September, . The Company filed motion strike, which was granted part and denied part December , . Santos filed Eighth Amended Complaint January , . The Company filed demurrer, which was heard May , . The court sustained the demurrer, and Santos filed Ninth Amended Complaint July , . The Company filed demurrer, which was overruled. The Company also filed cross complaint against Santos January , alleging violations California Business & Professions Code § and California Penal Code § , fraud and deceit and breach contract. Mediostream, Inc. . Acer America Corp. . Plaintiff filed this action against the Company, Acer America Corp., Dell, Inc. and Gateway, Inc. August , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent . , , , entitled "Method and System for Direct Recording Video Information onto Disk Medium." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company\' response the complaint not yet due. OPTi Inc. . Apple Inc. Plaintiff filed this action against the Company January , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent Nos. , , , , , and , , , all entitled "Predictive Snooping Cache Memory for Master-Initiated Accesses." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer April , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment noninfringement and invalidity. Premier International Associates LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this action November , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patent Nos. , , and , , both entitled "List Building System." The complaint sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer January , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment noninfringement and invalidity. Markman hearing was held May , and the court issued its claim construction ruling May , . Trial was scheduled for December , . The parties have reached settlement and the matter concluded. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial condition operating results. Quantum Technology Management, Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this action December , the United States District Court for the District Maryland against the Company and Fingerworks, Ltd., alleging infringement . Patent . , , entitled "Time Domain Capacitive Field Detector." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. May , , Quantum filed amended complaint adding Cypress Semiconductor MicroSystems, Inc. defendant. July , , the Company filed answer denying all material ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DI19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses and also filed counterclaims for non-infringement and invalidity. November , , plaintiff filed reply the Company\' counterclaims and More Definite Statement. Markman hearing was held May , . June , , the court issued claim construction ruling, and also issued order invalidating six plaintiff\' asserted patent claims response the Company\' motion for partial summary judgment invalidity. Saito Shigeru Kenchiku Kenkyusho (Shigeru Saito Architecture Institute) . iPod; Apple Japan Inc. . Shigeru Saito Architecture Institute Plaintiff Saito filed petition the Japan Customs Office Tokyo January , alleging infringement the Company Japanese Patent . , entitled "Touch Operation Input Device and Electronic Parts Thereof." The petition sought order barring the importation into Japan fifth generation iPods and second generation iPod nanos. The Customs Office held hearing March , . The Customs Office rejected the petition bar importation and dismissed plaintiff\' case. Apple Japan, Inc. filed Declaratory Judgment action against Saito February , , seeking declaration that the \' patent invalid and not infringed. Saito filed Counter Complaint for infringement seeking damages. Technologies LLC . Apple Inc. Plaintiff filed this action against the Company August , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent . , , entitled "Method and Medium for Computer Readable Keyboard Display Incapable User Termination." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company\' response the complaint not yet due. -Germain . Apple Canada, Inc. Plaintiff filed this case Montreal, Quebec, Canada, August , , seeking authorization institute class action for the refund the Company the Canadian Private Copying Levy that was applied the iPod purchase price Quebec between December , and December , but later declared invalid the Canadian Court. The Company has completed refund program for this levy. class certification hearing took place January , . February , , the Court granted class certification and notice was published during the last week March . The trial was conducted October and , . The Court has not yet issued decision. Texas MP3 Technologies Ltd . Apple Inc. . Plaintiff filed this action against the Company and other defendants February , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent . , , entitled "MPEG Portable Sound Reproducing System and Reproducing Method Thereof." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. July , , the Company filed petition for reexamination the patent, which the . Patent and Trademark Office granted. Plaintiff filed amended complaint August , , adding the iPhone accused device. August , , the Company filed motion stay the litigation pending the outcome the reexamination, which the Court denied. The Company filed answer August , , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment noninfringement and invalidity. The Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation (formerly Charoensak . Apple Computer, Inc. and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc.); Black . Apple Inc. The first-listed action consolidated case combining two cases previously pending under the names Charoensak . Apple Computer Inc. (formerly Slattery . Apple Computer Inc.) and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc. The original plaintiff (Slattery) the Charoensak case filed purported class action ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DI19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. Plaintiff\' complaint alleged violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business & Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), common law unjust enrichment and common law monopolization. Plaintiff sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss February , . September , , the Court denied the motion part and granted part. Plaintiff filed amended complaint September , and the Company filed answer October , . August , the court dismissed Slattery without prejudice and allowed plaintiffs file amended complaint naming two new plaintiffs (Charoensak and Rosen). November , , the Company filed answer the amended complaint denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Tucker case was filed purported class action July , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music and videos purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and vice versa and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. The complaint alleges violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business & Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiff sought unspecified damages and other relief. November , , the Company filed motion dismiss the complaint. December , , the Court denied the motion dismiss. January , , The Company filed answer denying all material allegations and asserting numerous defenses. March , , the Court consolidated the two cases. Plaintiffs filed consolidated complaint April , . June , , the Company filed answer the consolidated complaint denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. related class action complaint, Black . Apple Inc ., was filed August , the Circuit Court Broward County, Florida, alleging that the Company attempting maintain monopoly precluding customers from using non-iTunes downloads iPods and from using iTunes music non-iPod MP3 players. Plaintiff alleges that the Company\' alleged monopolization violates the Florida Antitrust Act and the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company removed the case the United States District Court for the Southern District Florida September , , and filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California October , . The Company\' motion transfer was granted October , . Tse . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiff Keung Tse filed this action against the Company and other defendants August , the United States District Court for the District Maryland alleging infringement . Patent . , , entitled "Protection Software Again [sic] Against Unauthorized Use." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. October , , the Company and the other defendants filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California, which was granted August , . July , , the Company filed petition for reexamination the patent, which the . Patent and Trademark Office granted. July , , the Company filed motion stay the litigation pending the outcome the reexamination, which the court granted October , . Union Fédérale des Consummateurs\x97Que Choisir . Apple Computer France . and iTunes . Plaintiff, consumer association France, filed this complaint February , alleging that the above-listed entities are violating consumer law ( ) omitting mention that the iPod allegedly not ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DI19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' compatible with music from online music services other than the iTunes Store and that the music from the iTunes Store only compatible with the iPod and ( ) allegedly tying the sales iPods the iTunes Store and vice versa. Plaintiff seeks damages, injunctive relief and other relief. The first hearing the case took place May , . The Company\' response the complaint was served November , . Plaintiff\' responsive pleading was filed February , . The Company filed reply June , and UFC filed response September , . Vitt . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action November , the United States District Court for the Central District California behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers the iBook alleging that the computer\' logic board fails abnormally high rate. The complaint alleges violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising). Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss January , , which the court granted March , . Plaintiffs filed amended complaint March , . The Company filed motion dismiss August , , which was heard October , . Vogel . Jobs . Plaintiff filed this purported class action August , , the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and certain the Company\' current and former officers and directors alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain defendants\' profits, failing properly account for those grants and issuing false financial statements. January , , the Court appointed the New York City Employees\' Retirement System lead plaintiff. March , , plaintiffs filed Consolidated Class Action Complaint. The Consolidated Complaint purports brought behalf several classes holders the Company\' stock and asserts claims under Section ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act well state law. The Consolidated Complaint seeks rescission amendments various stock option and other incentive compensation plans, accounting and damages unspecified amount. Defendants filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard September , . ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DI19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AAPL and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest sales prices for the Company\' common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market during each quarter the two most recent fiscal years. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Holders November , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company did not declare pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DK19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Company Stock Performance The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Composite Index (the " & ") and the & Computers (Hardware) Index (the "Industry Index"). The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company\' common stock, the & , and the Industry Index September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DK19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plans," "predicts," and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Risk Factors" above. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references this report particular years quarters refer the Company\' fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers, portable digital music players, and mobile communication devices and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company\' products and services include the Mac® line desktop and portable computers, the iPod line portable digital music players, iPhone, Apple , Xserve®, and Xserve RAID, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac ® operating system, third-party digital content through the iTunes Store\x99, and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Mac, iPod and iPhone compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. Further discussion the Company\' products may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Business." The Company believes that for both professionals and consumers the personal computer has become the center evolving digital lifestyle integrating with and enhancing the utility advanced digital devices such the Company\' iPods, iPhones, digital video and still cameras, televisions, personal digital assistants, and other digital devices. The attributes the personal computer that enable this functionality include high-quality user interface, easy access relatively inexpensive data storage, the ability run complex applications, and the ability connect easily wide variety other digital devices and the Internet. The Company the only participant the personal computer industry that controls the design and development the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated applications. This, along with its products\' creative industrial designs, intuitive ease- -use, and built- graphics, multimedia and networking capabilities, uniquely positions the Company offer innovative integrated digital lifestyle solutions. The Company\' business strategy leverages its ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware, and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers around the world compelling new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Mac line computers, consumer electronics with its iPod product family portable digital music players, and distribution third-party digital content through its online iTunes Store. With the introduction iPhone, the Company has also begun compete with mobile communication device companies that have substantial experience and technological and financial resources. While the Company widely recognized leading innovator the personal computer and consumer electronics markets well leader the emerging market for distribution digital content, these markets are highly competitive and subject ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DK19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' aggressive pricing. remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment research and development (" & ") and marketing and advertising necessary maintain expand its position the markets where competes. The Company\' & spending focused further developing its existing line personal computers, operating systems, application software, and portable digital music players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas such iPhone and wireless technologies. The Company also believes increased investment marketing and advertising programs critical increasing product and brand awareness. The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available only Mac computers, and demonstrate the compatibility the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting and retaining customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company has expanded and improved its distribution capabilities opening its own retail stores the . and internationally. The Company had stores open September , . The Company also staffs selected third-party stores with the Company\' own employees improve the buying experience through reseller channels. The Company has deployed Apple employees and contractors reseller locations around the world including the ., Canada, Europe, Japan, Asia, Latin America and Australia. The Company also sells customers directly through its online stores around the world. improve access the iPod product family, the Company has significantly expanded the number distribution points where iPods are sold. iPods can purchased certain department stores, member-only warehouse stores, large retail chains, and specialty retail stores, well through the channels for Mac distribution listed above. The Company began shipping iPhone the . June , , the . and Germany November , and expects begin shipping the iPhone France November , . & Mobility LLC (" & "), Limited (" "), -Mobile International & . (" -Mobile"), and France Telecom ("Orange") are the exclusive cellular network carriers for iPhone the ., ., Germany, and France, respectively. iPhone distributed through the Company and its exclusive cellular network carriers\' distribution channels. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\' discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company\' management make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note "Summary Significant Accounting Policies" Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\' consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\' critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, stock-based compensation, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these critical policies because they are both important the portrayal the Company\' financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DK19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company\' senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\' Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, music products, digital content, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue for software products (operating system software and applications software), any product that considered software-related accordance with the guidance Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") . - , Applicability AICPA Statement Position - Non-software Deliverables Arrangement Containing More-Than-Incidental Software , ( ., Mac computers, iPod portable digital music players and iPhone) pursuant American Institute Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement Position ("SOP") . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended. For products that are not software software-related, ( ., digital content sold the iTunes Store and certain Mac, iPod and iPhone supplies and accessories) the Company recognizes revenue pursuant SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") . , Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable and all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. During , the Company began shipping Apple and iPhone. For both Apple and iPhone, the Company indicated may provide future unspecified features and additional software products free charge customers. Therefore, sales Apple and iPhone handsets are recognized under subscription accounting accordance with SOP . - . The Company recognizes the associated revenue and cost goods sold straight-line basis over the currently estimated -month economic lives these products with any loss recognized the time sale. Costs incurred the Company for engineering, sales, marketing and warranty are expensed incurred. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DK19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' would required record additional reductions revenue, which would have negative impact the Company\' results operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors and resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\' assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debt, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\' distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\' financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments were made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communications industries are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\' products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company accrues reserves for estimated cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled are expected cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\' products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\' products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DK19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost for hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection and adjusts the amounts necessary. For products accounted for under subscription accounting pursuant SOP . - , the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\' results operations. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and system software maintain the software\' compliance with specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty cost that recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") . (revised ) ("SFAS . 123R"), Share-Based Payment . Under the provisions SFAS . 123R, stock-based compensation cost estimated the grant date based the award\' fair-value calculated the Black-Scholes-Merton ("BSM") option-pricing model and recognized expense ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The BSM model requires various judgmental assumptions including expected volatility, forfeiture rates, and expected option life. any the assumptions used the BSM model change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially the future from that recorded the current period. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\' expectations could have material impact the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Legal Proceedings" and Note "Commitments and Contingencies" Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. The Company records contingent liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . There significant judgment required both the probability determination and whether exposure can reasonably estimated. management\' opinion, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition operating results. However, the outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject significant uncertainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Net Sales Fiscal years and spanned weeks while fiscal year spanned weeks. This additional week added the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Net sales and Mac unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and unit sales thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , Change September , Change September , Net Sales Operating Segment ( ): Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales , ( )% , % Retail net sales , % , % , Other Segments net sales ( ) , % , % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Mac unit sales , % , % , Europe Mac unit sales , % , % , Japan Mac unit sales ( )% ( )% Retail Mac unit sales , % % Other Segments Mac unit sales ( ) % % Total Mac unit sales , % , % , Net Sales Product: Desktops ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac net sales , % , % , iPod , % , % , Other music related products and services ( ) , % , % iPhone and related products and services ( ) \x97 \x97 Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , % , ( )% , Software, service, and other sales ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Desktops ( ) , % , ( )% , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac unit sales , % , % , Net sales per Mac unit sold ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , iPod unit sales , % , % , Net sales per iPod unit sold ( ) $ ( )% $ ( )% $ iPhone unit sales , \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Notes: ( ) During , the Company revised the way measures the Retail Segment\' operating results manner that generally consistent with the Company\' other operating segments. Prior period results have been reclassified reflect this change the Retail Segment\' operating results along with the corresponding offsets the other operating segments. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." ( ) Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro, Power Mac, and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, iBook, MacBook Pro, and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Derived from handset sales, carrier agreements, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. ( ) Derived dividing total Mac net sales total Mac unit sales. ( ) Derived dividing total iPod net sales total iPod unit sales. = Not Meaningful ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased % $ billion from even though the fiscal year spanned weeks while the fiscal year spanned weeks. Several factors contributed these increases including the following: \x95 Mac net sales increased $ billion % during compared , while Mac unit sales increased million units %. The % Mac unit sales growth rate significantly greater than the estimated growth rate the overall personal computer industry during that timeframe. Unit sales the Company\' portable products accounted for % the Company\' personal computer shipments , from % . Net sales and unit sales the Company\' portable products increased % and %, respectively, during compared . This growth was due strong demand for the MacBook, which increased each the Company\' operating segments, well the MacBook Pro, which increased each operating segment except Japan. Mac desktop net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, during due stronger sales the iMac each the Company\' operating segments. The Mac desktop net sales growth was greater than the unit sales growth primarily due shift desktop product mix away from the lower-price Mac Mini and discontinued eMac and toward the iMac. \x95 Net sales iPods increased $ million % during compared . Unit sales iPods increased % compared . The iPod growth was primarily driven increased sales the iPod shuffle and iPod nano particularly international markets. iPod unit sales growth was significantly greater than iPod net sales due shift overall iPod product mix, well due lower selling prices for the iPod classic, iPod nano and iPod shuffle compared . \x95 Net sales iPhone and related products and services were $ million . iPhone net sales include the portion iPhone handset revenue recognized accordance with subscription accounting over the product\' -month estimated economic life, well sales iPhone accessory products and revenue from carrier agreements. iPhone unit sales were million . \x95 Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared due increased net sales from the iTunes Store. The Company believes this growth was the result heightened consumer interest downloading digital content and the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale via the iTunes Store. \x95 Net sales peripherals and other hardware increased $ million % compared due increase wireless networking products and other hardware accessories, including printers and scanners, which was partially offset decrease net sales displays. \x95 Net sales software, service, and other sales rose $ million % during compared . This growth was primarily attributable increased net sales AppleCare Protection Plan ("APP") extended service and support contracts and increased sales Apple branded and third-party developers\' software products. Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased % $ billion from . This increase was due part the fact that spanned weeks while spanned weeks. Several other factors contributed these increases including the following: \x95 Net sales iPods increased $ billion % during compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million , which represents increase % from the million iPod units sold . Strong iPod sales during reflected significant sales both the hard-drive based iPod that supports video, first introduced October and the iPod nano, introduced September , well continued expansion iPod distribution points. During , the net ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' sales per iPod unit sold decreased % compared primarily due overall decrease average selling prices for all iPods well shift product mix the iPod nano. \x95 Mac net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Mac unit sales increased , units % during compared . These increases were mainly due strong demand for the Intel-based MacBook and MacBook Pro systems and reflect shift product mix portable products all the Company\' operating segments. Net sales and unit sales the Company\' portable products increased % and %, respectively, during compared . Mac desktop net sales and unit sales both decreased % during compared . The decrease sales the Company\' Mac desktops was due declines sales the Company\' professional-oriented desktop products. The Company believes the decline the Company\' professional-oriented desktop products was due customers delaying purchases such products anticipation the release the Intel-based Mac Pro, which did not begin shipping until August , and updated software applications capable running Intel-based Mac computers, and the trend toward portable computers. slight increase % during net sales per Mac unit sold was due shift mix higher-priced portable products, partially offset price reductions certain Mac systems. \x95 Other music related products and services consists sales associated with the iTunes Store and iPod services and accessories. Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The increase was primarily due increased net sales from the iTunes Store and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories and services. The increase sales from the iTunes Store stemmed from significant growth . sales and the opening the iTunes Store Japan during August and Australia during October . The increased sales from the iTunes Store were also attributable the availability videos, television shows, and feature-length movie downloads. \x95 Net sales software, service, and other sales increased $ million % during compared . The growth was primarily attributable increased net sales AppleCare Protection Plan ("APP") extended service and support contracts and application software, partially offset decrease sales Mac . Mac sales were particularly high due the release Mac Tiger April . Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales during were negatively impacted the following: \x95 Net sales peripherals and other hardware declined $ million % compared primarily due price decreases and decrease net sales displays relating shift mix from desktop portable systems. The decrease net sales displays for consistent with the overall decrease unit sales Mac professional desktop systems. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, the . and Italy. Each reportable geographic operating segment and the Retail operating segment provide similar hardware and software products and similar services. During , the Company revised the way measures the Retail Segment\' operating results manner that generally consistent with the Company\' other operating segments. Prior period results have been reclassified reflect this change the Retail Segment\' operating results along with the corresponding offsets the other operating segments. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Note , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' "Segment Information and Geographic Data" Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Americas During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion, %, compared . The main sources this growth were Mac portable products, iMacs, iPods, and the sales third-party content from the iTunes Store. Sales Mac portable products increased due the popularity the MacBook, introduced May and updated May , well the MacBook Pro, introduced January and updated June . Sales iMacs grew due shift desktop product mix away from the Mac mini and discontinued eMac well the strong reception the new iMac introduced August . Sales iPods grew due increased demand for the iPod nano and iPod shuffle and the introduction the iPod touch September . The Company believes that the growth iTunes Store sales was the result heightened consumer interest downloading digital content and the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale via the iTunes Store. During , the Americas segment represented % the Company\' total net sales compared % the same period . During , . education channel net sales and Mac unit sales increased % and %, respectively, compared . Net sales from the higher education market grew % during compared , while net sales the - market grew % during the same period. During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion, %, compared . The primary contributors this increase were iPods, other music related products and services, Mac portable systems, and APP. Sales iPods increased primarily due the introduction the updated iPod with video-playing capabilities October (now referred iPod classic) and the iPod nano during September . The increase other music related products and services was due increases sales Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories and sales from the iTunes Store. The increase sales Mac portable systems the Americas was due strong sales the MacBook and MacBook Pro during . The overall increase net sales was partially offset decline net sales desktops, displays, and Mac . The decrease desktop products and displays net sales reflects the overall shift product mix toward portable Mac systems. Mac sales decreased from since the Company had not released new version Mac since Tiger began shipping April . During , the Americas segment represented % the Company\' total net sales compared % the same period . Europe Europe segment net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, the primary drivers this growth were Mac portable products, iMacs, iPods, and the sales third-party content from the iTunes Store. Sales Mac portable products increased due the popularity both the MacBook and MacBook Pro. Sales iMacs grew due shift desktop product mix away from the Mac mini and discontinued eMac well the strong reception the new iMac introduced August . Sales iPods grew primarily due increased demand for the iPod nano and iPod shuffle. The Company believes that the growth iTunes Store sales was the result heightened consumer interest downloading digital content and the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale via the iTunes Store. Europe segment net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, these increases were result strong growth iPod sales, other music related products and services, and Mac portable systems. Sales iPods increased primarily due the introduction the updated iPod with video-playing capabilities October and the iPod nano during September . The increase other music related products and services was due increases sales Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories and sales from the iTunes Store. The increase sales portable systems Europe was due strong sales the MacBook and MacBook Pro that were introduced during . addition, Europe also reported increased sales APP related the increase Mac unit sales. These increases were partially offset decrease desktop and Mac net sales ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' during compared . The decrease desktop net sales was due the shift product mix toward portable Mac systems. Mac sales have decreased from since the Company has not released new version Mac since Tiger began shipping April . Japan Japan\' net sales declined $ million % compared . Total Mac unit sales Japan declined % during . The decrease the Japan segment\' overall net sales was primarily attributable decreases iPod and Mac desktop sales, partially offset increase revenue from MacBooks and sales third-party content from the iTunes Store. The decline net sales and Mac unit sales partially attributable Japan\' declining consumer market, and the iPod sales decline primarily due lower average selling prices. The Company continuing evaluate ways improve the future results its Japan segment. Japan\' net sales increased $ million % during compared . The Japan segment experienced increased net sales iPods, Mac portable products, and other music related products and services. Consistent with the Company\' other segments, Japan experienced increases sales iPods due the introduction the iPod with video-playing capabilities (now referred the iPod classic) and the iPod nano October and September , respectively. Japan also experienced strong sales the Intel-based MacBook and increased sales from the iTunes Store. These increases were partially offset decreases net sales Mac desktop products, displays, and Mac . The decreases desktop products and displays reflect the overall shift product mix toward portable Mac systems. Mac sales have decreased from since the Company had not released new version Mac since Tiger began shipping April . Total Mac unit sales during remained relatively flat compared . Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , including total international stores the . and Italy, bringing the total number open stores September , . This compares open stores September , and open stores September , . The Retail segment\' net sales increased % $ billion during compared . Retail segment Mac unit sales increased % during compared . With average stores open during , average revenue per store was $ million, compared $ million and $ million . The current year increase Retail segment net sales was primarily due stronger sales Mac portable products, iMacs, accessories and services. The increase was partially offset primarily lower net sales iPods and other music related products due the expanded availability those products through third-party resellers. The Retail segment\' net sales increased % $ billion during compared . Retail segment Mac unit sales increased % during compared . The current year increase was primarily due strong sales Mac portable and desktop products, iPods, and other music related products and services. Sales iPods increased primarily due the introduction the updated iPod with video-playing capabilities October and the iPod nano during September . The increase other music related products and services was due increased sales Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. Mac portable and desktop sales increased due strong sales the Intel-based MacBook, MacBook Pro, and iMac. measured the Company\' operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported operating income $ million during compared operating income $ million and $ million during and , respectively. This improvement was primarily attributable increase the Company\' overall gross margin percentage. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment were $ million , bringing the total capital asset purchases since inception the Retail segment $ billion. September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities $ billion. The Company would incur substantial costs were close multiple retail stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Other Segments The Company\' Other Segments, which consists its Asia Pacific and FileMaker operations, experienced increase net sales $ million, % during compared . This increase related primarily % increase sales Mac portable products and strong iPod sales the Company\' Asia Pacific region. During , net sales Other Segments increased % compared primarily due increase sales iPod and Mac portable products. Strong sales growth was result the introduction the updated iPods featuring video-playing capabilities and the new Intel-based Mac portable products that translated % increase Mac unit sales during compared . Gross Margin Gross margin for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gross margin percentage % increased significantly from % . The primary drivers this increase were more favorable costs certain commodity components, including NAND flash memory and DRAM memory, higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage fixed production costs and higher percentage revenue from the Company\' direct sales channels. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margins the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries will subject pressure due price competition. The Company expects gross margin percentage decline sequentially the first quarter primarily result the full-quarter impact product transitions and reduced pricing that were effected the fourth quarter , lower sales iLife and iWork their second quarter availability, seasonally higher component costs, and higher mix indirect sales. These factors are expected partially offset higher sales the Company\' Mac operating system due the introduction Mac Version Leopard ("Mac Leopard") that became available October . The foregoing statements regarding the Company\' expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking. There can assurance that current gross margin percentage will maintained targeted gross margin percentage levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential shift the Company\' sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. response these competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' demand for certain its products. Due the Company\' significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\' financial condition and operating results the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin percentage % remained flat compared . The Company experienced more favorable pricing certain commodity components including LCD flat-panel displays and DRAM memory and higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage fixed production costs, offset increase lower margin iPod sales and other music-related services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except for percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , September , Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and Development (" & ") Expenditures for & increased % $ million $ million compared . & expense does not include capitalized software development costs $ million related the development Mac Leopard and iPhone. The increases & expense were primarily due increase & headcount the current year support expanded & activities, partially offset one less week expenses the first quarter and the capitalized software development costs mentioned above. The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. such, the Company expects increase spending & remain competitive. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense (" & ") Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . The increase was primarily due higher direct and indirect channel variable selling expenses resulting from the significant year-over-year increase total net sales , the Company\' continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, and current year increase spending marketing and advertising, partially offset one less week expenses the first quarter . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , September , Interest income $ $ $ Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Total other income and expense increased $ million % $ million during compared $ million and $ million and , respectively. The increase attributable primarily increased interest received from higher cash and short-term investment balances and stronger investment yields resulting from higher average market interest rates partially offset one less week interest income earned . The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased % compared the % and % rates earned during and , respectively. The current year increase interest income was partially offset higher other expense, which was primarily associated with higher foreign currency hedging expenses. During , and , the Company had debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes The Company\' effective tax rate for the year ended September , was %. The Company\' effective rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . addition, the Company recorded tax benefit $ million due the settlement prior year audits the . September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ billion before being offset against certain deferred liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. September , and September , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits state operating losses that may not realized. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has completed its field audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company intends contest certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. All IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. addition, the Company subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Recent Accounting Pronouncements February , the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities-including amendment FASB Statement . ("SFAS . "). SFAS . allows companies choose elect measuring eligible financial instruments and certain other items fair value that are not required measured fair value. SFAS ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' . requires that unrealized gains and losses items for which the fair value option has been elected reported earnings each reporting date. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after November , and required adopted the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\' financial condition operating results. September , the FASB issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, provides framework for measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements. SFAS . applies other accounting pronouncements that require fair value measurements; does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after November , and required adopted the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\' financial condition operating results. June , the FASB issued FASB Interpretation . ("FIN") , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes- Interpretation FASB Statement . . FIN clarifies the accounting for uncertainty income taxes creating framework for how companies should recognize, measure, present, and disclose their financial statements uncertain tax positions that they have taken expect take tax return. FIN effective for fiscal years beginning after December , and required adopted the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application FIN , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\' financial condition operating results. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , September , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ , $ , $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Annual operating cash flow $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ billion over the same balance the end September , . The principal components this net increase were cash generated operating activities $ billion, proceeds from the issuance common stock under stock plans $ million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation $ million. These increases were partially offset payments for acquisitions property, plant, and equipment $ million and payments for acquisitions intangible assets $ million. The Company\' short-term investment portfolio primarily invested highly rated, liquid investments. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Capital Assets The Company\' total capital asset purchases were $ million during , consisting $ million for retail store facilities and $ million for real estate acquisitions and corporate infrastructure including information systems enhancements. the $ million total capital asset purchases during , $ million were not yet paid for September , . The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ billion for capital asset purchases during , including approximately $ million for expansion the Company\' Retail segment, and approximately $ million support normal replacement existing capital assets, including manufacturing related equipment, enhancements general information technology infrastructure, and real estate acquisitions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Company\' balance sheet current liabilities ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Total Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Operating leases $ , $ $ $ $ Purchase obligations , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset retirement obligations Other obligations \x97 \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ , $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases $ billion, $ billion which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Lease terms the Company\' existing major facility operating leases generally range from years. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\' products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. addition, the Company has off-balance sheet warranty obligation for products accounted for under subscription accounting pursuant SOP . - whereby the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments, component purchase commitments, and warranty commitments $ billion. During the first quarter , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' agreements, the Company prepaid $ billion for flash memory components during , which will applied certain inventory purchases made over the life each respective agreement. The Company utilized $ million the prepayment September , . Asset Retirement Obligations The Company\' asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. September , , the Company estimated that gross expected future cash flows $ million would required fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $ million September , , primarily related Internet and telecommunications services and the estimated cost related the $ store credit the Company offered customers who purchased iPhone prior the Company\' September price reduction. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition operating results. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. such, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, the value those investments, well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' short-term investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. portion the Company\' cash managed external managers within the guidelines the Company\' investment policy and objective market benchmark. The Company\' internal portfolio benchmarked against external manager performance, allowing for differences liquidity needs. The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investment portfolio. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued highly rated issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with initial maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with initial maturities greater than three months the date purchase are classified short-term investments. September , , $ billion the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities less than months. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized net gains before taxes short-term investments approximately $ , and net losses before taxes approximately $ , and $ , and , respectively. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its material foreign exchange exposures. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\' foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk ("VAR") model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate , random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\' foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\' investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\' actual exposures and positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]DM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Reports Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FA19701A.; \',USER=\'EPEREZ\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , , Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net , , Goodwill Acquired intangible assets, net Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income Total shareholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FC19701A.; \',USER=\'EPEREZ\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales ( ) , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) Selling, general, and administrative ( ) , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development $ $ $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FE19701A.; \',USER=\'EPEREZ\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Common Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Deferred Stock Compensation Retained Earnings Total Shareholders\' Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income , Issuance stock-based compensation awards \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , , ( ) , \x97 , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Deferred compensation \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , , \x97 , , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized loss available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss derivative instruments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , \x97 ( ) \x97 Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FG19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock-based compensation expense Provision for deferred income taxes Excess tax benefits from stock options \x97 \x97 Gain sale PowerSchool net assets \x97 ( ) \x97 Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other assets ( , ) ( ) Accounts payable , , Other liabilities , , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales investments , , Purchases long-term investments ( ) ( ) \x97 Proceeds from sale PowerSchool net assets \x97 \x97 Payment for acquisition property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Payment for acquisition intangible assets ( ) \x97 \x97 Other ( ) ( ) Cash (used for) generated investing activities ( , ) ( , ) Financing Activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 Repurchases common stock ( ) ( ) \x97 Cash generated financing activities Increase cash and cash equivalents , , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FI19701A.; \',USER=\'EPEREZ\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively "Apple" the "Company") design, manufacture, and market personal computers, portable digital music players, and mobile communication devices and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Mac, iPod and iPhone compatible products including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. The Company\' fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company\' first quarter fiscal year contained weeks and the first quarter fiscal year contained weeks. The Company\' fiscal year ended September , and included weeks, while fiscal year included weeks and fiscal year included weeks. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years quarters refer the Company\' fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months the date purchase are classified short-term investments. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates the available-for-sale designations each balance sheet date. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not defined hedges Statement Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, amended, must adjusted fair value through earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument recognized current earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. The Company\' inventories consist primarily finished goods for all periods presented. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and , respectively. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company records obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations . The Company reviews legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. determined that legal obligation exists, the fair value the liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow and its present value accreted over the life the related lease operating expense. All the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The Company\' asset retirement liability was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. The Company did not record any material impairments during , , and . SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not amortized but rather tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill impairment tests about August each year. The Company did not recognize any goodwill intangible asset impairment charges , , . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . dollar functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included "accumulated other comprehensive income" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\' results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, music products, digital content, peripherals, and service and support contracts. For any product within these groups that either software, considered software-related accordance with the guidance Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") . - , Applicability AICPA Statement Position - Non-Software Deliverables Arrangement Containing More-Than-Incidental Software ( ., Macintosh computers and iPod portable digital music players), the Company accounts for such products accordance with the revenue recognition provisions American Institute Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement Position ("SOP") . - , Software Revenue Recognition . The Company applies Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") . , Revenue Recognition, for products that are not software software-related, such digital content sold the iTunes Store and certain Mac, iPod and iPhone supplies and accessories. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from service and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the service coverage periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the service coverage offered under the Company\' one-year limited warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies based the gross amount billed. The Company accounts for multiple element arrangements that consist only software software-related products accordance with SOP . - . multiple-element arrangement includes deliverables that are neither software nor software-related, the Company applies EITF . - , Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, determine those deliverables constitute separate units accounting from the SOP . - deliverables. the Company can separate the deliverables, the Company applies SOP . - the software and software-related deliverables and applies other appropriate guidance ( ., SAB . ) the deliverables outside the scope SOP . - . Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based the relative fair value each element. Each element\' allocated revenue recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for that element have been met. Fair value generally determined vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE"), which based the price charged when each element sold separately. the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value any undelivered element included multiple-element arrangement, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, until fair value can objectively determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value delivered element has not been established, the Company uses the residual method recognize revenue the fair value all undelivered elements determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value the undelivered elements deferred and the remaining portion the arrangement fee allocated the delivered elements and recognized revenue. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Revenue recorded net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. When the Company does offer specified upgrade rights, the Company defers revenue for the fair value the specified upgrade ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' right until the future obligation fulfilled when the right the specified upgrade expires. Additionally, limited number the Company\' software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. March , the Company began shipping Apple and June began shipping iPhone. For Apple and iPhone, the Company indicated may provide future unspecified features and additional software products free charge customers. Accordingly, Apple and iPhone handsets sales are accounted for under subscription accounting accordance with SOP . - . such, the Company\' policy defer the associated revenue and cost goods sold the time sale, and recognize both straight-line basis over the currently estimated -month economic life these products, with any loss recognized the time sale. Costs incurred the Company for engineering, sales, marketing and warranty are expensed incurred. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\' customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\' ability pay. Shipping Costs For all periods presented, amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company\' shipping and handling costs are included cost sales. Warranty Expense The Company generally provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. For products accounted for under subscription accounting pursuant SOP . - , the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally most software development costs have been expensed. , the Company determined that both Mac Version Leopard ("Mac Leopard") and iPhone achieved technological feasibility. During , the Company capitalized $ million costs associated with the development Leopard and iPhone. accordance with SFAS . , the capitalized costs related Mac Leopard and iPhone are amortized cost sales commencing when each respective product begins shipping and are recognized straight-line basis over year estimated useful life the underlying technology. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation September , , the Company adopted SFAS . (revised ) ("SFAS . 123R"), Share-Based Payment , which addresses the accounting for stock-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\' equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. January , the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued SAB . , which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS . 123R. SFAS . 123R eliminates the ability account for stock-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and instead generally requires that such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton ("BSM") option-pricing model determine the fair-value stock-based awards under SFAS . 123R, consistent with that used for pro forma disclosures under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . SFAS . 123R prohibits recognition deferred tax asset for excess tax benefit that has not been realized. The Company will recognize benefit from stock-based compensation equity incremental tax benefit realized following the ordering provisions the tax law. addition, the Company accounts for the indirect effects stock-based compensation the research tax credit, the foreign tax credit, and the domestic manufacturing deduction through the income statement. Prior the adoption SFAS . 123R, the Company measured compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed APB Opinion . . The Company applied the disclosure provisions SFAS . amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure, the fair-value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options was equal the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense was recognized. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The following table illustrates the effect net income after taxes and net income per common share the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . stock-based compensation during ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income $ , Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) Net income\x97pro forma $ , Net income per common share Basic $ Diluted $ Net income per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ Diluted $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Further information regarding stock-based compensation can found Notes and . Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options, shares purchased under the employee stock purchase plan, unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units ("RSUs") reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\' common stock can result greater dilutive effect from outstanding options, restricted stock, and RSUs. Additionally, the exercise employee stock options and the vesting restricted stock and RSUs can result greater dilutive effect earnings per share. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share ( thousands, except net income and per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Numerator ( millions): Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding, excluding unvested restricted stock , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Denominator for diluted earnings per share , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Potentially dilutive securities representing million, million, and million shares common stock for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. These potentially dilutive securities include stock options, unvested restricted stock, and RSUs. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains, and losses that under . generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FK19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Note \x97Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\' cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . Corporate securities , , Foreign securities , , Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities . Corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' . Corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits, and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper issued foreign companies, and certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had $ million net unrealized losses its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities ranging from years, September , , and net unrealized losses approximately $ , its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities less than year, September , . The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized net gains before taxes approximately $ , and net losses before taxes approximately $ , and $ , and , respectively. September , and September , , $ billion and $ million, respectively, the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , and September , had maturities less than months. accordance with FASB Staff Position ("FSP") FAS - and FAS - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments, the following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value for those investments that were unrealized loss position ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' September , and September , , aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agency securities $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ \x97 . Corporate securities , ( ) \x97 , ( ) Foreign securities ( ) \x97 ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agency securities $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 . Corporate securities \x97 ( ) , ( ) Foreign securities \x97 \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The unrealized losses the Company\' investments during . Corporate securities and foreign securities and during . Corporate securities were caused primarily changes interest rates. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities with strong liquidity and with low probabilities default. The Company\' investment policy requires investments rated single- better. Therefore, the Company considers the declines temporary nature. During , the Company did not record any material impairment outstanding securities. September , , the Company does not consider the investments other-than-temporarily impaired. Market values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the issuer, and the Company\' ability and intent hold the investment for period time, which may sufficient for anticipated recovery market value. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors and resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company requires collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables not ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. One customer accounted for approximately % trade receivables September , , while customers accounted for more than % trade receivables September , . The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , September , Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the Consolidated Balance Sheets other current assets, totaled $ billion and $ billion September , and September , , respectively. The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the products are sold through the end customer which time the profit recognized reduction cost sales. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales. The Company\' accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ , $ $ Purchased options $ $ $ $ $ $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models and prevailing financial market information September , and September , . Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its material foreign exchange exposures. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue, and the Company\' non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\' functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenue recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases over time horizon months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company recognized net gains approximately $ , and $ , and , respectively, and net loss $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. September , , the Company had net deferred gain associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ , , net taxes, substantially all which expected reclassified earnings the end the second quarter fiscal . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument designated net investment hedge included the cumulative translation adjustment account accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders\' equity. For the years ended September , and September , , the Company had net loss $ million and net gain $ million, respectively, included the cumulative translation adjustment. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities recorded non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. Due currency market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Other Current Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Vendor non-trade receivables $ , $ , NAND flash memory prepayments Other current assets Total other current assets $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Property, Plant, and Equipment User-specified TAGGED TABLE Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Other Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Long-term NAND flash memory prepayments $ $ , Non-current deferred tax assets \x97 Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Expenses User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred revenue\x97current $ , $ Deferred margin component sales Other accrued tax liabilities Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities , Total accrued expenses $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Non-Current Liabilities User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred revenue\x97non-current $ $ Deferred tax liabilities Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Other Income and Expense User-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest income $ $ $ Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Definite lived and amortizable acquired technology $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Indefinite lived and unamortizable trademarks \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Goodwill $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , and September , , the weighted-average amortization period for acquired technology was years and years, respectively. During , the Company sold certain assets related its PowerSchool web-based student information system operations. connection with this sale, the Company reduced goodwill $ million for the outstanding balance from the acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. and recognized $ million pre-tax gain, which reflected other income and expense the Consolidated Statement Operations. Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FM19701A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Federal: Current $ , $ $ Deferred , State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings $ billion, $ billion, and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , $ billion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\' consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FO19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ $ Tax losses and credits Basis capital assets and investments Accounts receivable and inventory reserves Other Total deferred tax assets , Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets , Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company has tax loss and credit carryforwards the tax effected amount $ million. September , and September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits state operating losses that may not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Computed expected tax $ , $ $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other items ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ $ Effective tax rate % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock options. The Company receives income tax benefit calculated the difference between the fair market value the stock issued the time the exercise and the option price, tax effected. The net tax benefits from employee stock option transactions were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively, and were reflected increase common stock the Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FO19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has completed its field audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company intends contest certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. All IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. and , the Company recorded tax benefits $ million and $ million, respectively, due the settlement prior year tax audits the . Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity Preferred Stock The Company has five million shares authorized preferred stock, none which issued outstanding. Under the terms the Company\' Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\' authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Restricted Stock Units The Company\' Board Directors has granted RSUs members the Company\' management team, excluding its CEO. These RSUs generally vest over four years either the end the four-year service period, two equal installments the second and fourth anniversaries the date grant, equal installments each the first through fourth anniversaries the grant date. Upon vesting, the RSUs will convert into equivalent number shares common stock. The compensation expense incurred the Company for RSUs based the closing market price the Company\' common stock the date grant and amortized ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The RSUs have been reflected the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. During and , , and million, respectively, previously granted RSUs vested. majority these vested RSUs were net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees\' minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld approximately , and , for and , respectively, was based the value the RSUs their vesting date determined the Company\' closing stock price. Total payments for the employees\' tax obligations the taxing authorities were $ million and $ million and , respectively, and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. These net-share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced and retired the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company\' Board Directors granted million shares restricted stock the Company\' CEO that vested March , . The amount the restricted stock award expensed the Company was based the closing market price the Company\' common stock the date grant and was amortized ratably straight-line basis over the three-year requisite service period. Upon vesting during , the million shares restricted stock had fair value $ million and had grant-date fair value $ per share. The restricted stock award was net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the CEO\' minimum statutory obligation for the applicable ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FO19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld million were based the value the restricted stock award the vesting date determined the Company\' closing stock price $ . The remaining shares net those withheld were delivered the Company\' CEO. Total payments for the CEO\' tax obligations the taxing authorities was $ million and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. The net-share settlement had the effect share repurchases the Company reduced and retired the number shares outstanding and did not represent expense the Company. The Company\' CEO has remaining shares restricted stock. For the years ended September , and September , , compensation expense related restricted stock was $ million and $ million, respectively. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. The Company has repurchased total million shares cost $ million under this plan and was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains, and losses that under . generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income, net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Unrealized losses available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ \x97 $ ( ) Unrealized gains derivative instruments \x97 Cumulative foreign currency translation \x97 Accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The change fair value available-for-sale securities included other comprehensive income was $( ) million, $ million, and zero, net taxes , , and , respectively. The tax effect related the change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities was $ million, $( ) million, and zero for , , and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FO19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Changes fair value derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Adjustment for net (losses)/gains realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains derivative instruments $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $ million, $( ) million, and $( ) million for , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains losses reclassified from other comprehensive income net income was $ million, $ million, and $( ) million for , , and , respectively. Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the " Plan") shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based grants employees, including executive officers. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, RSUs, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights and performance-based awards. During , the Company\' shareholders approved amendment the Plan increase the number shares authorized for issuance million shares. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the " Plan"), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. October , the Company terminated the Plan and new options can granted from this plan. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors adopted Director Stock Option Plan (the "Director Plan") for non-employee directors the Company, which was approved shareholders . Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares common stock upon their initial election the Board ("Initial Options " ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares common stock ("Annual Options"). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\' executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook, . Peter Oppenheimer, . Philip . Schiller, and . Bertrand Serlet, have entered into trading plans pursuant ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FO19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\' stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\' employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting RSUs. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan"), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six-month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. During , the Company\' shareholders approved amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares authorized for issuance million shares and limit the number shares that may purchased any calendar year million shares. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' eligible earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FO19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Stock Option Activity summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the last three fiscal years follows (stock award amounts and aggregate intrinsic value are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted-Average Exercise Price Weighted-Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance September , , , $ Additional options authorized , \x97 \x97 Restricted stock units granted ( ) \x97 \x97 Options granted ( , ) , $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Options exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled \x97 \x97 Plan shares expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted stock units granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options granted ( , ) , $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled \x97 \x97 Options exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Additional shares authorized , \x97 \x97 Restricted stock units granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options granted ( , ) , $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled \x97 \x97 Options exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ $ , , Exercisable September , , $ $ , , Expected Vest after September , , $ $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value the Company\' closing stock price the last trading day the fiscal period excess the exercise price multiplied the number options outstanding exercisable. Total intrinsic value options time exercise was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for , , and , respectively. The Company recognized $ million, $ million and $ million stock-based compensation expense , and , respectively. Capitalized stock-based compensation costs were $ million September , . There were stock-based compensation costs capitalized September , . The income tax benefit related stock-based compensation expense was $ million and $ million for the years ended September , and September , , respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related stock options and RSUs expected vest was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost September , , expected recognized over weighted-average period years. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FO19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity (Continued) September , , the Company had million RSUs outstanding with total grant-date fair value $ million that were excluded from the options outstanding balances the preceding table. The weighted-average grant date fair value RSUs granted during , , and was $ per share, $ per share, and $ per share, respectively. Aggregate intrinsic value RSUs was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. RSUs that vested during and totaled , and million, respectively, and had fair value $ million and $ million, respectively, the vesting date. Shares RSUs granted after April have been deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\' stock option plans utilizing factor two times the number RSUs granted. Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note the effect net income and earnings per share for the year ended September , the fair value method accounting for stock-based compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the BSM option-pricing model. The Company uses the BSM option-pricing model calculate the fair value stock-based awards. The BSM option-pricing model incorporates various assumptions including expected volatility, expected life, and interest rates. The expected volatility based the historical volatility the Company\' common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\' stock options and other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\' common stock. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock awards grants employees. Stock-based compensation cost estimated the grant date based the award\' fair-value calculated the BSM option-pricing model and recognized expense ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The weighted average assumptions used for , , and and the resulting estimates weighted-average fair value per share options granted and for stock purchases during those periods are follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Expected life stock options years years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options % % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases % % % Volatility\x97stock options % % % Volatility\x97stock purchases % % % Dividend yields \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are generally for terms years and generally ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\' total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years $ Thereafter Total minimum lease payments $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\' hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. For products accounted for under subscription accounting pursuant SOP . - , the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and system software maintain the software\' compliance with specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty costs that are recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The following table reconciles changes the Company\' accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Certain key components including, but not limited , microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources which subjects the Company supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including, but not limited , NAND flash memory, DRAM memory, and certain LCDs, are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. addition, the Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply critical components favorable pricing, and there guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements when they expire. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can adversely affect gross margins and operating margins. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the global personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, iPods, iPhones, logic boards, and other assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. significant concentration this outsourced manufacturing currently performed only few the Company\' outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced supplier components and manufacturing outsourcing for many the Company\' key products, including but not limited , assembly ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' most the Company\' portable Mac computers, iPods, and iPhones. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. Long-Term Supply Agreements During the first quarter , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these agreements, the Company prepaid $ billion for flash memory components during , which will applied certain inventory purchases made over the life each respective agreement. The Company utilized $ million the prepayment September , . Contingencies The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition operating results. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various countries within Europe and Asia, certain Canadian provinces and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' financial condition operating results. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , the Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its operating segments, which are generally based the nature and location its customers, the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific, Retail, and FileMaker operations. The Company\' four geographical segments, together with the Retail segment, all sell the same products the same types customers. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail operations. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments exclude activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, the . and Italy. Other operating segments include ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products, similar services and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note . The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location the customers, and net sales for the Retail segment are based sales from the Company\' retail stores. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, research and development, corporate marketing expenses, stock-based compensation expense, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges, and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets such cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital asset purchases for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital asset purchases the Retail segment were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and respectively. From the establishment the Retail segment fiscal through the quarter ended March , , Company management assessed the segment\' operating performance differently from the Company\' other operating segments. Because the Company\' Retail initiative was unproven concept inception, management chose measure the Retail segment\' performance manner that would allow comparability the Company\' major channel partners operating retail stores the . There were three significant differences the measurement the Retail segment\' results relative the Company\' other operating segments. First, the Retail segment\' operating income reflected cost sales for Apple products amounts normally charged Apple\' major . channel partners for the same products, less the cost the Company\' sales programs and other costs support those partners. Second, the cost sales the Company\' service and support contracts, including the AppleCare Protection Plan ("APP") and Mac, were reflected the Retail segment\' results the costs charged major channel partners for such contracts, and all associated revenue was reflected the Retail segment\' results the time sale rather than being amortized over the lives the respective agreements. Because the Company had not yet earned the revenue incurred the cost associated with the sale such contracts, offset these amounts was recognized other segments\' net sales and cost sales. Third, the Company allocated certain expenses related the operation its high-profile stores corporate marketing expense. Having operated the Company\' Retail stores successfully for more than six years, management believes its Retail initiative proven concept that will continue integral element the Company\' distribution and marketing strategies. Additionally, the Company expects sales iPhone the Company\' geographic and Retail operating segments generate significant levels deferred revenue and deferred cost sales over time. consideration these factors, management has determined that beginning with the quarter ended June , , aligning measurements for the performance the Retail segment with those used for the Company\' other operating segments provides the most meaningful information. Accordingly, management has begun measure the Retail segment\' operating performance manner ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' generally consistent with the Company\' other operating segments. The cost sales the Company\' products sold through the Retail segment now reflected amounts similar the cost sales the same products reflected the Company\' other operating segments. Revenue from APP and Mac contracts sold through the Retail segment now being recognized over the lives the respective service agreements. Additionally, the Retail segment applying the same subscription accounting iPhone net sales and cost sales that the Company\' other operating segments apply. Management believes aligning measurements for the performance the Retail segment with those used for the Company\' other operating segments will provide greater comparability with the rest the Company\' segments and allow for more meaningful assessment the Retail segment\' operating results. The Company has reclassified prior period operating segment results reflect these changes the measurement the operating results for the Retail segment, along with the corresponding offsetting impact the Company\' other operating segments. The Company will continue allocate certain operating expenses associated with its high-profile stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated Company-wide benefit. These high-profile stores are larger than the Company\' typical retail stores and were designed further promote brand awareness and provide venue for certain corporate sales and marketing activities, including corporate briefings. The allocation these operating costs corporate expense based the amount incurred for high-profile store excess that incurred more typical Company retail location. The Company had opened total eight high-profile stores September , . Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations high-profile stores were $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended September , , September , , and September , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ $ Other Segments ( ): Net sales $ , $ , $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments include Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Other corporate expenses, net ( ) ( , ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Corporate assets , , , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization, and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. single customer single country outside the . accounted for more than % net sales , , . Net sales and long-lived assets related the . and international operations are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , $ International Total long-lived assets $ , $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales: Desktops ( ) $ , $ , $ , Portables ( ) , , , Total Mac net sales , , , iPod , , , Other music related products and services ( ) , , iPhone and related products and services ( ) \x97 \x97 Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , , , Software, service, and other net sales ( ) , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Power Mac, Mac Pro, and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, iBook, MacBook Pro, and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Store sales and iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Derived from handset sales, carrier agreements, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system and application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions The Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, Steve Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Company recognized total approximately $ , , $ , , and $ , , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , , and , respectively. , the Company entered into agreement with Pixar sell certain Pixar\' short films the iTunes Store. . Jobs was the CEO, Chairman, and large shareholder Pixar. May , , The Walt Disney Company ("Disney") acquired Pixar, which resulted Pixar becoming wholly-owned subsidiary Disney. Upon Disney\' acquisition Pixar, . Jobs\' shares Pixar common stock were exchanged for Disney\' common stock and was elected the Disney Board Directors. Royalty expense recognized the Company under the arrangement with Pixar from September , through May , was less than $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables set forth summary the Company\' quarterly financial information for each the four quarters ended September , and September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ $ $ $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FQ19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. discussed Note the Consolidated Financial Statements, effective September , , the Company adopted the provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . 123R, Share-Based Payment . also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Apple Inc.\' internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion the effectiveness the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FS19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc.: have audited Apple Inc.\' internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO) . Apple\' management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting, included the accompanying Management\' Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\' internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\' internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\' internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\' assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued COSO. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion those consolidated financial statements . / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]FS19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management, the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ("Exchange Act") were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\' management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\' internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company\' internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\' assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the Company\' receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\' management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\' assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\' Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\' internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\' Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\' management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended). Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness the Company\' internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ("COSO"). Based this evaluation, management has concluded that the Company\' internal control over financial reporting was effective September , . The Company\' independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GA19701A.; \',USER=\'EPEREZ\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' LLP, has issued attestation report the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. The report the audit internal control over financial reporting appears page this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company\' internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter fiscal , which were identified connection with management\' evaluation required paragraph ( ) rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information November , , the Board Directors the Company amended and restated the Company\' Amended Bylaws permit the issuance uncertificated shares stock and make related conforming and mechanical changes. The foregoing description the amendments the Company\' Amended and Restated Bylaws qualified its entirety the text the Amended and Restated Bylaws, which attached hereto Exhibit and incorporated herein reference. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GA19701A.; \',USER=\'EPEREZ\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Directors Listed below are the Company\' seven directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell -lead Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert . Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson, . -lead Director Eric . Schmidt, . Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("Intuit") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From January August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since January . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. ("Gap") from and President from until . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap from November until October . Albert . Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. ("Google") since . has also served Executive Chairman Current since and Chairman Generation Investment Management since . visiting professor Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the United States . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the Cabinet and the National Security Council. Prior , served eight years the . Senate and eight years the . House Representatives. Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also director The Walt Disney Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been Chief Executive Officer and Director Genentech Inc. ("Genentech") since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . . Levinson also serves the Board Directors Google. Eric . Schmidt, . has served the Chief Executive Officer Google since July and member Google\' Board Directors since March , where served Chairman the Board from March April . April , . Schmidt was named Chairman the Executive Committee Google\' Board Directors. From April November , . Schmidt served Chairman the Board Directors Novell, Inc. ("Novell"), computer networking company, and, from April July , the Chief Executive Officer Novell. Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital LLC (formerly Harwinton Capital Corporation), private investment company that controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation ("IBM"), and served member IBM\' Board Directors from January August . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Company\' Board Directors (the "Board Directors") oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance high standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board Directors bring wide range experience, knowledge and judgment the Company. These varied skills mean that governance far more than "check the box" approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board Directors are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board Directors has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee ("Nominating Committee") and Audit and Finance Committee ("Audit Committee"). All committee members are independent under the listing standards the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The members the committees are identified the table below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Director Audit and Finance Committee Compensation Committee Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee William . Campbell Chair \x97 Millard . Drexler \x97 Albert . Gore, . \x97 Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 \x97 Arthur . Levinson, . \x97 Chair Eric . Schmidt, . \x97 \x97 \x97 Jerome . York Chair \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\' independent registered public accounting firm and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\' accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Members the Audit Committee are Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson. The Audit Committee met total times during fiscal year . The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\' executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\' equity compensation plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, and Gore. The Compensation Committee met total five ( ) times during fiscal year . The Nominating Committee assists the Board Directors identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board Directors and its committees, monitors the process assess the Board Directors\' effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\' corporate governance guidelines. The Nominating Committee also considers nominees proposed shareholders. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Drexler and Gore and . Levinson. The Nominating Committee met total three ( ) times during fiscal year . The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board Directors. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert The Board Directors has determined that all members the Company\' Audit Committee, Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson, qualify "audit committee financial experts" defined the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and also meet the additional criteria for independence Audit Committee members set forth Rule 10A- ( )( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the "Exchange Act"). Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, and the Board Directors. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide," available the Company\' website www apple com investor. The Company intends disclose any changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors ." User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Timothy . Cook Chief Operating Officer Daniel Cooperman Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Tony Fadell Senior Vice President, iPod Division Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail Peter Oppenheimer Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Philip . Schiller Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing Bertrand Serlet, . Senior Vice President, Software Engineering Sina Tamaddon Senior Vice President, Applications end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Timothy . Cook, Chief Operating Officer, joined the Company March . . Cook also served the position Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations from . , his responsibilities were expanded include the Company\' Macintosh hardware engineering. From , . Cook served the role Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Sales, Service and Support. From , . Cook served the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ("Compaq"). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. . Cook also serves member the Board Directors Nike, Inc. Daniel Cooperman , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, joined the Company November . Prior joining the Company, served Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Oracle Corporation since February . Prior that, had been associated with the law firm McCutchen, Doyle, Brown & Enersen (which now Bingham McCutchen LLP) since October , and had served partner since June . From September until February , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' . Cooperman was Chair the law firm\' Business and Transactions Group and from April through September , served the Managing Partner the law firm\' San Jose office. Tony Fadell, Senior Vice President, iPod Division, joined the Company . From April , . Fadell was Vice President iPod Engineering. From , . Fadell was the Senior Director the Company\' iPod Engineering Team. Prior joining Apple, . Fadell was -founder, CTO, and director engineering the Mobile Computing Group Philips Electronics where was responsible for all aspects business and product development for variety products. . Fadell later became Business Development for Philips . Strategy & Ventures, focusing building the company\' digital media strategy and investment portfolio. Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail, joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller, and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Philip . Schiller, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing, rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March , and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering, joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT and also served the Company the position Vice President Platform Technology. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon, Senior Vice President, Applications, joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Exchange Act requires the Company\' executive officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the SEC. Executive officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year , except that ( ) one Form was filed for William Campbell October , with respect the purchase . Campbell\' independent money manager , , , and , shares the Company\' common stock, February , September and January , respectively, and the sale . Campbell\' independent money manager , , , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' and , shares the Company\' common stock April , June and July , respectively, and ( ) one Form was filed for Tony Fadell November , with respect the acquisition . Fadell\' spouse , restricted stock units December and , restricted stock units October . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS . EXECUTIVE SUMMARY This section explains Apple\' executive compensation program relates the following "named executive officers:" User-specified TAGGED TABLE Steve Jobs Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook Chief Operating Officer Peter Oppenheimer Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ron Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail Sales Tony Fadell Senior Vice President, iPod Division end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Apple\' executive compensation program for the named executive officers consists long-term equity awards the form restricted stock units ("RSUs") and cash compensation the form performance-based cash incentives and base salaries. Each year, the Compensation Committee, which made entirely independent directors, determines the compensation for the named executive officers. Apple relies heavily long-term equity awards attract and retain outstanding executive team and ensure strong connection between executive compensation and financial performance. RSU award gives the named executive officer the right receive, cost, specified number shares Apple common stock when the award vests, typically intervals two four years. Because the value the RSUs depends Apple\' future share price, the award links compensation future financial performance. The officer generally not eligible receive the shares employment terminated before the RSUs vest. The Compensation Committee reviews annually the outstanding, unvested equity awards each named executive officer determine, the Committee\' discretion, whether additional awards are warranted light the officer\' performance, the competitive environment and the other factors discussed Section below. The performance-based cash incentives compensate the named executive officers for achieving specific financial goals established annually the Compensation Committee, described Section . The Committee sets aggressive performance goals each year based the revenue and operating income objectives Apple\' internal business plan. Payments are not automatic, however, because the Committee may exercise its discretion reduce (but not increase) the amount any incentive payment based officer\' overall performance. Based the factors discussed Section below and the Committee\' belief that the outstanding, unvested equity awards still had significant retention value, the Committee made new equity awards the named executive officers fiscal . The officers earned cash incentives fiscal the maximum amount allowed the plan\x97 % base salary\x97because Apple\' financial performance significantly exceeded the annual performance goals set the Committee. The Committee assessed both the amount and allocation the compensation components for each officer based Apple\' overall annual financial performance and each officer\' individual performance. The Committee did not increase base salaries for the named executive officers because concluded that the total compensation for each officer was appropriate. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Apple\' shareholders have been generously rewarded for Apple\' success, with three-year annualized shareholder return % through the end fiscal . The Committee believes the compensation the named executive officers has been appropriate and fair light Apple\' performance. . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION OBJECTIVES Apple\' goal for executive compensation simple: attract and retain exceptionally talented, entrepreneurial and creative team executives who will provide the leadership for Apple\' success dynamic, highly-competitive markets. . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION OVERVIEW . Three Components The compensation program for the named executive officers consists the following three components, order their importance: \x95 Long-term equity awards the form RSUs under the shareholder-approved Employee Stock Plan \x95 Annual performance-based cash incentives under the shareholder-approved Performance Bonus Plan (the CEO, however, does not participate this plan and not eligible for performance-based cash incentives) \x95 Base salary The named executive officers are also eligible participate Apple\' health and welfare programs, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, ( ) Plan, patent bonus program and other minor employee recognition programs the same basis other employees. . Mix Equity, Cash Incentives and Salary Apple relies heavily long-term equity awards because the Compensation Committee believes they are the most effective compensation element for attracting entrepreneurial, creative executives and promoting their long-term commitment Apple. RSU award generally vests only the named executive officer continues employment until the specified vesting date, typically two four years after the date grant. Equity awards also help ensure strong connection between executive compensation and Apple\' financial performance because the value RSUs depends Apple\' future share price. Although the Compensation Committee reviews the compensation practices its peer companies described Section below, the Committee does not adhere strict formulas survey data determine the mix compensation elements. Instead, described Section , the Committee considers various factors exercising its discretion determine compensation, including the experience, responsibilities and performance each named executive officer well Apple\' overall financial performance. This flexibility particularly important designing compensation arrangements attract new executives highly-competitive, rapidly changing markets. . Elements Compensation Not Included The Compensation Program The current compensation program for the named executive officers, including the CEO, does not include the following: \x95 Employment contracts ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' \x95 Cash bonuses other than the performance-based cash incentives under the Performance Bonus Plan and payments under the patent bonus program \x95 Severance and change control arrangements beyond what available all . employees (with the exception rights accelerated vesting previously granted part equity awards that will fully vest March ) \x95 Perquisites personal benefits that are not available employees generally \x95 Guarantees the value equity awards . CEO Compensation Apple\' CEO, Steve Jobs, currently holds approximately million shares Apple common stock. Since rejoining Apple , . Jobs has never sold share Apple stock. His last equity grant was awarded , and vested full . . Jobs currently holds unvested equity awards. fiscal , . Jobs\' entire compensation consisted his $ annual salary. Because . Jobs\' continued leadership critical Apple, the Compensation Committee considering additional compensation arrangements for him. . Jobs has received $ annual salary since rejoined Apple and began serving interim CEO. , Apple awarded . Jobs aircraft executive bonus recognition his outstanding performance during the previous two years. . Jobs also received two stock option grants, one and another . . Jobs never exercised these grants, and they were both cancelled March , when Apple awarded . Jobs grant million shares restricted stock. The restricted stock grant required . Jobs remain employed Apple for three more years before vested. This grant, which increased million shares when Apple\' common stock split , vested full March . After portion these shares was withheld for the payment taxes, . Jobs received the remaining , , shares. Due large part . Jobs\' leadership, Apple\' stock price (after accounting for stock split) increased from $ the March grant date $ the March vesting date\x97more than eight-fold increase three years. Under . Jobs\' continued leadership, Apple\' stock price increased from $ per share March $ per share October , \x97 three-fold increase approximately months. When was elected Apple\' Board Directors , . Jobs received the standard director\' stock option grant for , shares. Because . Jobs became employed later that year Apple\' interim CEO, was longer eligible for such director grants. When the director grant (which increased , shares after two stock splits) was due expire August , . Jobs exercised the option and currently holds these , shares. . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PROGRAM DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION . Team-Based Compensation The compensation program for the named executive officers rests two assumptions. First, each officer must demonstrate exceptional personal performance order remain part the executive team. Second, each officer must contribute member the team Apple\' overall success rather than merely achieve specific objectives within that officer\' area responsibility. . Independent Compensation Committee Determines All Executive Compensation The Compensation Committee determines all compensation for the named executive officers. All three Committee members are independent Apple\' management. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' During the first quarter each fiscal year, the Compensation Committee conducts evaluation each named executive officer determine any changes the officer\' compensation are appropriate based the considerations described below. The CEO does not participate the Committee\' deliberations decision with regard his compensation. the Committee\' request, the CEO reviews with the Committee the performance the other four named executive officers, but other named executive officer has any input into executive compensation decisions. The Committee gives considerable weight the CEO\' evaluation the other named executive officers because his direct knowledge each officer\' performance and contributions. For each officer, the Committee members independently determine each component compensation based their collective assessment the officer\' performance well Apple\' overall financial performance. . The Crucial Role Long-Term Equity Awards Overview. The Committee believes that long-term equity awards are the most effective way attract and retain superlative executive team. Accordingly, executive compensation heavily weighted toward long-term equity awards rather than cash compensation, and the awards have long vesting intervals maximize their retention value. This approach reflected the following: \x95 The CEO\' compensation has been generally tied long-term equity; for example, his last equity award did not vest for three years. \x95 For the other four named executive officers, equity awards represented approximately % their target total compensation fiscal . This compares approximately % Apple\' peer companies. \x95 Fiscal equity awards vested % the second anniversary the grant date; the remaining % will vest the fourth anniversary the grant date. \x95 Fiscal equity awards not vest all until , when they vest full. designing long-term equity awards, the Committee seeks maximize their effectiveness accomplishing Apple\' compensation objectives while recognizing the Board\' duty Apple\' shareholders limit equity dilution. The Committee believes this balance has been achieved follows: Restricted Stock Units Minimize Dilution and Support Long-Term Focus. Since fiscal , all equity awards the named executive officers have been RSUs rather than stock options. grant RSUs gives officer the right receive specified number shares Apple common stock, cost the officer, the officer remains employed Apple until the RSUs vest. RSUs granted also provide for accelerated vesting the named executive officer terminated without cause change control, RSUs granted before provide for accelerated vesting change control, and all RSUs provide for accelerated vesting upon the death the officer. The compensation value RSU does not depend solely future stock price increases; grant, its value equal Apple\' stock price. Although its value may increase decrease with changes the stock price during the period before vesting, RSU will have value the long term, encouraging retention. contrast, the entire compensation value stock option depends future stock price appreciation. Accordingly, RSUs can deliver significantly greater share-for-share compensation value grant than stock options, and Apple can offer comparable grant date compensation value with fewer shares and less dilution for its shareholders. Long Vesting Intervals Maximize Retention. All vesting RSUs generally subject continued employment. Except for occasional new hire grants, vesting occurs intervals ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' less than two years after the grant date. This ensures that meaningful portion named executive officer\' awards will vest every two years\x97 strong incentive continue employment with Apple. The following table shows the grant and vesting patterns for ongoing RSU grants for the named executive officers since fiscal (excluding those who were not named executive officers the time grant). User-specified TAGGED TABLE Equity Awards FY05 vesting FY06 vesting FY07 vesting FY08 vesting FY09 vesting FY10 vesting Fiscal RSU (excluding CEO) \x97 % \x97 % Fiscal RSU (excluding CEO) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Vesting Conditions. noted above, the vesting all RSUs generally contingent the named executive officer\' continued employment with Apple, rather than performance with regard specific business objectives. From time time, the Compensation Committee has considered various forms performance-based vesting. After careful evaluation, the Committee has concluded that performance-based vesting would not serve Apple\' current objectives effectively the program described above. The Committee generally grants RSUs with two four year vesting periods maximize the award\' retention value. This retention value would undermined named executive officer\' equity awards (which represent approximately % the officer\' compensation) were risk based performance measures that were determined two even four years prior the vesting date. Given the intensely dynamic business environment which Apple operates, would extremely difficult craft meaningful objectives with such long horizon. Apple imposes requirement that the named executive officers hold their common stock for any period after vesting. Annual Burn Rate Averages Less Than %. fiscal , Apple committed annual "burn rate" (the total number all equity award shares granted during the fiscal year divided the total shares outstanding the end the fiscal year) % from fiscal through fiscal . This commitment represented significant reduction from average burn rate % from fiscal through fiscal . fact, Apple\' average annual burn rate from fiscal through fiscal was approximately %. Overhang from Equity Plans %. Overhang (granted and outstanding equity awards plus shares reserved for future awards, divided the sum total shares outstanding, granted and outstanding equity awards, and shares reserved for future awards) another measure equity dilution. The efficient use equity awards, combined with the substantial exercise employee stock options due the significant increase Apple\' stock price over the past few years, has caused Apple\' overhang decline from approximately % the end fiscal approximately % the end fiscal . Frequency and Size Equity Awards. The named executive officers typically receive equity awards every two years, rather than every year. This practice consistent with the long time horizon and lengthy vesting periods the awards. making awards less frequently, the Committee can provide larger grants, which turn promotes greater retention. determine the size RSU grants, the Compensation Committee first establishes target compensation value that wants deliver the named executive officers through long-term equity awards. doing , the Committee considers various factors, including the following: \x95 The practice granting equity only every two years \x95 The heavy weight placed equity the mix total compensation ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' \x95 The officer\' experience and performance \x95 The scope, responsibility and business impact the officer\' position \x95 The perceived retention value the total compensation package light the competitive environment Once the target value has been established, the Committee determines the number shares reference the current value Apple\' common stock. . The Minor Role Cash Compensation Base Salaries. The Committee believes that base salaries are significantly less important than performance-based bonuses and long-term equity awards meeting Apple\' compensation objectives. The minor role salaries part total compensation reflected the following: \x95 The CEO has received annual base salary $ since rejoining Apple . \x95 The fiscal average base salary for the other named executive officers was below median among the peer companies shown Section , despite Apple\' significantly greater financial and business success. \x95 Base salaries for the named executive officers have not increased since October , except for promotion-related increase for one officer. Performance-Based Cash Incentives. The Performance Bonus Plan, which has been approved Apple\' shareholders, authorizes the Committee issue plan-based cash incentive awards compensate officers for achieving specific financial objectives that are established annually. The Committee believes that performance-based cash compensation important component executive compensation; however, represents small percentage total compensation because its effectiveness meeting Apple\' compensation objectives limited. less significant factor attracting new executive talent than equity compensation, and promotes retention only the short-term\x97over the performance period. Accordingly, the plan modestly funded, reflected the following: \x95 The CEO does not participate the Performance Bonus Plan. \x95 Apple\' target payout % base salary significantly lower than peer companies group, where median target bonus payouts range from % % base salary. \x95 The maximum payout % for exceptional performance also lower than peer companies, where times the target range ( ., % % base salary) becoming increasingly common. The Compensation Committee establishes performance goals each year based revenue and operating income objectives Apple\' internal business plan. The Committee has selected these performance goals because they are important indicators increased shareholder value. These performance goals generally exclude the effects extraordinary, unusual infrequently occurring events changes accounting principles. Apple does not publicly disclose specific annual internal revenue operating income objectives, its business plan highly confidential. Disclosing specific objectives would provide competitors and other third parties with insights into the planning process and would therefore cause competitive harm. The Committee next determines the maximum amount any cash incentive payment denominated percentage base salary. The current payment structure shown the payout matrix below. Once the performance goals and payment structure are established, one has the authority modify waive them. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Percentage Salary Payable Performance-Based Cash Incentives User-specified TAGGED TABLE Revenue Operating Income Below Objective Meet Objective Above Objective Below Objective % % % Meet Objective % % % Above Objective % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The performance goals are aggressive. Thus, there considerable risk that payments will not made all will made less than %. For the past three years, the performance goals have reflected double-digit growth both revenue and operating income. four the past eight years, Apple did not meet one both performance goals. This uncertainty ensures that any payments under the plan are truly performance-based, consistent with the plan\' objectives. the end the year, the Committee determines the amount the award paid each officer comparing actual results the performance goals. The Committee may, its discretion, reduce (but not increase) the amount any individual award based the officer\' overall performance. The plan does not provide for the adjustment recovery award paid named executive officer the results previous year are subsequently restated adjusted manner that would have originally resulted smaller award. . The Role Consultants The Compensation Committee has selected and directly retained the services Frederic . Cook & ., Inc., executive compensation consulting firm. member the Compensation Committee any named executive officer has any affiliation with . Cook. The Committee periodically seeks input from . Cook range external market factors, including evolving compensation trends, appropriate comparison companies and market survey data. . Cook also provides general observations Apple\' compensation programs, but does not determine recommend the amount form compensation for any executives. . The Role Peer Groups, Surveys and Benchmarking With the assistance . Cook, the Committee identified peer companies for fiscal that compete with Apple the labor and capital markets and that follow similar pay models. The Committee established the two peer groups listed below, one consisting large technology companies and another consisting large retailers. The retail peer group relevant comparison group for the Senior Vice President, Retail Sales; the technology peer group relevant for the other four named executive officers. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Technology Companies Retail Companies Adobe Systems Amazon com Applied Materials Cisco Systems Comcast Dell eBay EMC Google Hewlett-Packard IBM Intel Microsoft Motorola Oracle Qualcomm Sprint Nextel Sun Microsystems Texas Instruments Xerox The Gymboree Corporation Limited Brands Nike Polo Ralph Lauren Restoration Hardware Sharper Image Target Tiffany & . Tween Brands Wal-Mart end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' The Committee reviews compensation practices peer companies (gathered from SEC filings and the Radford High Technology compensation survey) high level ensure that Apple\' total compensation within reasonably competitive range. The Committee, however, does not attempt set compensation components meet specific benchmarks, such salaries "above the median" equity compensation " the percentile." Furthermore, the Committee believes that excessive reliance benchmarking detrimental shareholder interests because can result compensation that unrelated the value delivered the named executive officers. . Tax and Accounting Considerations Tax Deductibility Compensation Expense. Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code places limit $ , , the amount compensation certain officers that may deducted Apple business expense any tax year unless, among other things, the compensation performance-based and has been approved the shareholders. qualify performance-based compensation, the amount compensation must depend the officer\' performance against pre-determined performance goals established committee that consists solely least two "outside" directors who have never been employed Apple its subsidiaries. Two Compensation Committee members, . Gore and . Drexler, qualify outside directors under the IRS definition. Although . Campbell independent director under SEC and NASDAQ governance standards, does not qualify outside director because was officer Apple from and Apple subsidiary from . For this reason, does not discuss vote any Section ( )-related matters. Salaries for the named executive officers not qualify performance-based compensation. Apple\' performance-based cash incentives, however, are exempt from the Section ( ) limit because they are paid based predetermined goals established the Compensation Committee pursuant the shareholder-approved Performance Bonus Plan. The RSUs not qualify performance-based compensation for purposes Section ( ) because vesting based continued employment rather than specific performance goals. See page for explanation Apple\' decision not implement performance-based vesting. Tax Implications for Officers. Section 409A the Internal Revenue Code imposes additional income taxes executive officers for certain types deferred compensation that not comply with Section 409A. Because Apple does not generally provide deferred compensation the named executive officers, this limitation has impact the structure the compensation program for the officers. Section 280G the Internal Revenue Code imposes excise tax payments executives severance change control compensation that exceed the levels specified Section 280G. The named executive officers could receive the amounts shown the table page severance change control payments, but the Committee does not consider their potential impact compensation program design. Accounting Considerations. The Committee also considers the accounting and cash flow implications various forms executive compensation. its financial statements, Apple records salaries and performance-based compensation incentives expenses the amount paid, paid, the named executive officers. Accounting rules also require Apple record expense its financial statements for equity awards, even though equity awards are not paid cash employees. The accounting expense equity awards employees calculated accordance with SFAS 123R. The Committee believes, however, that the many advantages equity compensation, discussed above, more than compensate for the non-cash accounting expense associated with them. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' . Fiscal Compensation Decisions . Equity Grants Salary Changes fiscal , the Committee did not grant new equity awards increase base salaries for the named executive officers. Based its assessment the factors discussed above and the Committee\' belief that the outstanding, unvested equity grants the beginning fiscal had significant retention value, the Committee concluded that the compensation packages for the named executive officers were reasonable without additional equity awards. The outstanding equity grants the end fiscal are shown the Outstanding Equity Awards table pages and . Based review competitive practices and the Committee\' approach place less emphasis cash compensation, the Committee concluded that the total compensation for the officers were appropriate for fiscal without salary increase. . Performance-Based Cash Incentive Plan Payments Apple\' fiscal performance significantly exceeded the revenue and operating income goals established under the cash incentive plan, the Committee, the exercise its discretion, approved payouts the named executive officers the maximum % base salary, pursuant the payout matrix page . The specific payment amounts are shown the Summary Compensation Table page . Compensation Committee Report( ) The Compensation Committee has certain duties and powers described its charter. The Compensation Committee currently composed the three non-employee directors named the end this report, each whom independent defined the NASDAQ listing standards. ( ) SEC filings sometimes "incorporate information reference." This means the Company referring information that has previously been filed with the SEC, and that this information should considered part this filing. Unless the Company specifically states otherwise, this report shall not deemed incorporated reference and shall not constitute soliciting material otherwise considered filed under the Securities Act the Securities Exchange Act. The Compensation Committee has reviewed and discussed with management the disclosures contained the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section this Form - . Based upon this review and discussion, the Compensation Committee recommended the Board Directors that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section included this Form - and the Company\' Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting Shareholders, filed with the SEC. Compensation Committee the Board Directors William . Campbell (Chairman) Millard . Drexler Albert . Gore, . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GC19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Summary Compensation Table The following table presents information regarding compensation each the Company\' Named Executive Officers for services rendered during fiscal year . User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name and Principal Position ( ) Year ( ) Salary ($) ( ) Bonus ($) ( ) Stock Awards ($)( ) ( ) Option Awards ($)( ) ( ) Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation ($)( ) ( ) Change Pension Value and Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Earnings ($) ( ) All Other Compensation ($) ( ) Total ($) ( ) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook Chief Operating Officer , \x97 , , \x97 , \x97 , ( ) , , Peter Oppenheimer Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , \x97 , , \x97 , \x97 , ( ) , , Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , \x97 , , \x97 , \x97 ( ) , , Tony Fadell Senior Vice President, iPod Division , , ( ) , , , , \x97 , ( ) , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The amounts reported Columns ( ) and ( ) the table above reflect the aggregate dollar amounts recognized for stock awards and option awards, respectively, for financial statement reporting purposes with respect fiscal year (disregarding any estimate forfeitures related service-based vesting conditions). stock awards option awards granted Named Executive Officers were forfeited during fiscal year . Detailed information about the amount recognized for specific awards reported the table under "Outstanding Equity Awards Fiscal Year-End" below. For discussion the assumptions and methodologies used value the awards reported Column ( ) and Column ( ), please see the discussion stock awards and option awards contained Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Form - Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Stock-Based Compensation." ( ) described the "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" above, the Named Executive Officers\' annual bonuses are derived based the performance the Company and the individual executive relative pre-established objectives for the fiscal year. The target and maximum amounts for each Named Executive Officer\' fiscal year bonus opportunity are reported the "Grants Plan-Based Awards" table below. ( ) This amount represents the Company\' contributions . Cook\' account under its ( ) plan the amount $ , and tax gross- the amount $ for iPhone given the Company each its employees, including the Named Executive Officers, other than . Jobs. ( ) This amount represents ( ) the Company\' contributions . Oppenheimer\' account under its ( ) plan the amount $ , ; ( ) tax gross- the amount $ for iPhone given the Company each its employees, including the Named Executive Officers, other than . Jobs; and (iii) reimbursement the Company $ , for payment tax liability under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. ( ) This amount represents tax gross- the amount $ for iPhone given the Company each its employees, including the Named Executive Officers, other than . Jobs. ( ) This amount represents patent award paid the Company . Fadell. ( ) This amount represents ( ) the Company\' contributions . Fadell\' account under its ( ) plan the amount $ , ; and ( ) tax gross- the amount $ for iPhone given the Company each its employees, including the Named Executive Officers, other than . Jobs; and (iii) tax gross- the amount $ for iPod given him the Company. Compensation Named Executive Officers The Summary Compensation Table above quantifies the value the different forms compensation earned awarded the Named Executive Officers fiscal year . The primary elements each ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GE19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Named Executive Officer\' total compensation reported the table are base salary, annual bonus, and long-term equity incentives consisting restricted stock units and, the case . Fadell, patent award and stock options received prior his appointment executive the Company. Named Executive Officers also earned the other benefits listed Column ( ) the Summary Compensation Table, further described footnotes , , and the table. noted above, the Company does not have employment agreements with any the Named Executive Officers. The Summary Compensation Table should read conjunction with the tables and narrative descriptions that follow. The Grants Plan-Based Awards table, and the accompanying description the material terms the stock options and restricted stock unit awards granted fiscal year , provides information regarding the long-term equity incentives awarded Named Executive Officers fiscal year . The Outstanding Equity Awards Fiscal Year End and Option Exercises and Stock Vested tables provide further information the Named Executive Officers\' potential realizable value and actual value realized with respect their equity awards. Grants Plan-Based Awards The following table presents information regarding the incentive awards granted the Named Executive Officers for fiscal year . User-specified TAGGED TABLE Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards Estimated Future Payouts Under Equity Incentive Plan Awards All Other Option Awards: Number Securities Underlying Options (#) ( ) Name ( ) Grant Date ( ) Threshold ($) ( ) Target ($) ( ) Maximum ($) ( ) Threshold (#) ( ) Target (#) ( ) Maximum (#) ( ) All Other Stock Awards: Number Shares Stock Units (#) ( ) Exercise Base Price Option Awards ($/ ) ( ) Grant Date Fair Value Stock and Option Awards ($) ( ) Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Peter Oppenheimer \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Ronald . Johnson \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Tony Fadell \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Description Plan-Based Awards Each the "Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards" reported the Grants Plan-Based Awards Table was granted under the Company\' Performance Bonus Plan. The material terms these incentive awards are described the "Compensation Discussion and Analysis" above. noted earlier, the Company did not grant equity incentive plan awards any its Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . Outstanding Equity Awards Fiscal Year-End The following table presents information regarding the outstanding equity awards held each the Named Executive Officers September , , including the vesting dates for the portions these awards that had not vested that date. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GE19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Option Awards User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name ( ) Option Grant Date ( ) Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Exercisable (#) ( ) Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Unexercisable (#) ( ) Option Exercise Price ($) ( ) Option Expiration Date ( ) Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals \x97 \x97 Peter Oppenheimer \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals \x97 \x97 Ronald . Johnson , , , \x97 \x97 Totals , , \x97 Tony Fadell , , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Totals , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The unvested portion this option award scheduled vest two ( ) substantially equal installments November , and February , . ( ) The unvested portion this option award scheduled vest three ( ) substantially equal installments December , , March , and June , . ( ) The unvested portion this option award scheduled vest eight ( ) substantially equal installments November , and each successive three ( ) month anniversary November , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GE19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Stock Awards User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name ( ) Award Grant Date ( ) Number Shares Units Stock That Have Not Vested (#) ( ) Market Value Shares Units Stock That Have Not Vested ($)( ) ( ) Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Number Unearned Shares, Units Other Rights That Have Not Vested (#) ( ) Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Market Payout Value Unearned Shares, Units Other Rights That Have Not Vested ($) ( ) Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook , , ( ) ( ) , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals , , , \x97 \x97 Peter Oppenheimer , , ( ) ( ) , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals , , , \x97 \x97 Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) ( ) , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals , , , \x97 \x97 Tony Fadell , , ( ) ( ) , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Totals , , , \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The dollar amounts shown Column ( ) are determined multiplying ( ) the number shares units reported Column ( ) ( ) $ (the closing price the Company\' common stock September , , the last trading day fiscal year ). ( ) The unvested portion this restricted stock unit award scheduled vest its entirety March , . ( ) The unvested portion this restricted stock unit award scheduled vest its entirety March , . ( ) The unvested portion this restricted stock unit award scheduled vest two ( ) substantially equal installments August , and August , . ( ) The unvested portion this restricted stock unit award scheduled vest two ( ) substantially equal installments March , and March , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GE19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Option Exercises and Stock Vested The following table presents information regarding the exercise stock options Named Executive Officers during fiscal year , and the vesting during fiscal year other stock awards previously granted the Named Executive Officers. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Option Awards Stock Awards Name ( ) Number Shares Acquired Exercise (#) ( ) Value Realized Exercise ($)( ) ( ) Number Shares Acquired Vesting (#) ( ) Value Realized Vesting ($)( ) ( ) Steven . Jobs , ( ) , , \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Peter Oppenheimer \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Ronald . Johnson , , , \x97 \x97 Tony Fadell , , , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The dollar amounts shown Column ( ) above for option awards are determined multiplying ( ) the number shares the Company\' common stock which the exercise the option related, ( ) the difference between the per-share closing price the Company\' common stock the date exercise and the exercise price the options. The dollar amounts shown Column ( ) above for stock awards are determined multiplying the number shares units, applicable, that vested the per-share closing price the Company\' common stock the vesting date. ( ) These shares were acquired . Jobs August , through exercise stock options granted him under the Director Stock Option Plan that were expire August , . . Jobs has not sold any the shares acquired that exercise. Potential Payments Upon Termination Change Control noted above, the Company does not have employment agreements with any its Named Executive Officers, nor does the Company maintain any other plans arrangements that provide for any Named Executive Officer receive cash severance other cash payments connection with termination their employment with the Company and change control the Company. Effective for grants made after April , , the Company\' Employee Stock Plan (the " Plan") was amended eliminate accelerated vesting outstanding awards connection with change control the Company. With respect awards granted under the Plan prior that date, such awards, the extent then outstanding and unvested, will generally become fully vested and, the case options, exercisable upon change control the Company, unless the Compensation Committee provides for the substitution, assumption, exchange other continuation such awards. Any options that become vested connection with change control generally must exercised prior the change control, they will canceled exchange for the right receive cash payment connection with the change control transaction. The award agreements evidencing certain grants restricted stock units the Company\' Named Executive Officers prior January , generally provide that , connection with change control the Company, the executive\' employment terminated the Company without cause the executive for good reason ( those terms are defined the applicable award agreement), the restricted stock units that are then outstanding and unvested will vest full. The following table lists the Named Executive Officers and the estimated amounts they would have become entitled under the terms stock option and restricted stock unit awards granted them under the Plan prior April , had change control the Company occurred September , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GE19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' , unless the Compensation Committee had provided for the substitution, assumption, exchange other continuation such awards. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name ( ) Estimated Total Value Equity Acceleration ($) ( ) Steven . Jobs \x97 Timothy . Cook , , Peter Oppenheimer , , Ronald . Johnson , , Tony Fadell , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Director Compensation The following table presents information regarding the compensation paid during fiscal year members the Company\' Board Directors who are not also employees (the "Non-Employee Directors"). The compensation paid . Jobs, the Company\' Chief Executive Officer, presented above the Summary Compensation Table and the related explanatory tables. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name ( ) Fees Earned Paid Cash ($) ( ) Stock Awards ($)( )( )( ) ( ) Option Awards ($)( )( )( ) ( ) Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation ($) ( ) Change Pension Value and Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Earnings ($) ( ) All Other Compensation ($)( ) ( ) Total ($) ( ) William . Campbell , \x97 , \x97 \x97 , , Millard . Drexler , \x97 , \x97 \x97 , , Albert . Gore, . , \x97 , \x97 \x97 , , Arthur . Levinson, . , \x97 , \x97 \x97 , , Eric . Schmidt, . \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Jerome . York , \x97 , \x97 \x97 , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The amounts reported Columns ( ) and ( ) the table above reflect the aggregate dollar amounts recognized for stock awards and option awards, respectively, for financial statement reporting purposes with respect fiscal year (disregarding any estimate forfeitures related service-based vesting conditions). For discussion the assumptions and methodologies used calculate the amounts referred above, please see the discussion stock awards and option awards contained Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Form - Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Stock-Based Compensation." ( ) The following table presents the number outstanding and unexercised option awards and the number unvested stock awards held each the Non-Employee Directors September , . User-specified TAGGED TABLE Director Number Shares Subject Outstanding Options Number Unvested Shares Restricted Stock William . Campbell , \x97 Millard . Drexler , \x97 Albert . Gore, . , \x97 Arthur . Levinson, . , \x97 Eric . Schmidt, . \x97 \x97 Jerome . York , \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) described below, the Company granted each its Non-Employee Directors (other than . Schmidt) option purchase , shares the Company\' common stock during fiscal year . These grants were made the anniversary the director\' initial election appointment the Board Directors and had the following fair values the applicable grant date: . Campbell, $ , ; . Drexler, $ , ; . Gore, $ , ; . Levinson, $ , ; and . York, $ , . See footnote ( ) for the assumptions used value these awards. ( ) The amount reported column ( ) above consists solely one more limited number free computer systems and additional equipment pursuant the Board Directors Equipment Program. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GE19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Compensation Directors The form and amount director compensation are determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board base substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity. Under the Company\' Director Stock Option Plan (the "Director Plan"), the Company\' Non-Employee Directors are granted option acquire , shares the Company\' common stock upon their initial election the Board ( "Initial Option"). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal installments each the first three anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary Non-Employee Director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director granted option acquire , shares the Company\' common stock ( "Annual Option"). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable the date grant. Upon his initial appointment the Board August , , . Schmidt declined the annual retainer fee and the automatic stock option grant purchase , shares which new directors are entitled under the Director Plan. Instead, . Schmidt purchased , shares the Company\' common stock the open market. Non-Employee directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly installments. Beginning the fiscal year, the chairperson the Audit and Finance Committee will also entitled annual retainer $ , , addition the annual retainer paid all non-employee directors. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving member chairperson any other committee. addition, directors receive two free computer systems per year and are eligible purchase additional equipment discount. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The Compensation Committee members whose names appear the Compensation Committee Report above were committee members during all fiscal year . . Campbell formerly served officer the Company and FileMaker, Inc., subsidiary the Company. other member the Compensation Committee has been former current executive officer the Company, and member the Compensation Committee had any relationships requiring disclosure the Company under the SEC\' rules requiring disclosure certain relationships and related-party transactions. None the Company\' executive officers served director member compensation committee ( other committee serving equivalent function) any other entity, the executive officers which served director member the Compensation Committee during the fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GE19701A.; \',USER=\'GMEDINA\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) ( ) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ \x97 Total equity compensation plans ( ) , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan, and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. The grant , , restricted stock units has been deducted from the number shares available for future issuance. Shares restricted stock and restricted stock units granted after April count against the shares available for grant two shares for every share granted. This number excludes shares under the Stock Option Plan that was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) This table does not include shares common stock underlying options assumed connection with prior acquisition company that originally granted those options. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under the assumed plan. Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners The following table sets forth certain information September , (the "Table Date") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' common stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares common stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Information Regarding Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares the Company\' common stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners the Company\' common stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. addition, unless otherwise indicated, all persons named below can reached Apple Inc., Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GG19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' Security Ownership % Holders, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Fidelity Investments , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Tony Fadell , ( ) * Albert . Gore, . , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Peter Oppenheimer , ( ) * Eric . Schmidt , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All current executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , ( ) % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares the Company\' common stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. This does not include options restricted stock units that vest more than days after the Table Date. ( ) Based Form 13G filed February , FMR Corp. FMR Corp. lists its address Devonshire Street, Boston, , such filing. ( ) Includes , shares the Company\' common stock that . Campbell has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Excludes , unvested restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares the Company\' common stock that . Drexler holds indirectly and , shares the Company\' common stock that . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes shares the Company\' common stock that . Fadell holds indirectly, , shares the Company\' common stock that . Fadell has the right acquire exercise stock options within days after the Table Date, , shares the Company\' common stock held . Fadell\' spouse, and , shares the Company\' common stock that . Fadell\' spouse has the right acquire exercise stock options within days after the Table Date. Excludes , unvested restricted stock units held . Fadell and , unvested restricted stock units held . Fadell\' spouse. ( ) Consists , shares the Company\' common stock that . Gore has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares the Company\' common stock that . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options and excludes , unvested restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares the Company\' common stock held . Levinson\' spouse and , shares the Company\' common stock that . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Excludes , unvested restricted stock units. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GG19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' ( ) Consists , shares the Company\' common stock that . Schmidt holds indirectly. . Schmidt has declined participate the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) Includes , shares the Company\' common stock that . York holds jointly with his spouse and , shares the Company\' common stock that . York has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares the Company\' common stock that executive officers directors have the right acquire exercise stock options and excludes , , unvested restricted stock units. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares the Company\' common stock the Table Date. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Review, Approval Ratification Transactions with Related Persons The Board Directors has adopted written policy for approval transactions between the Company and its directors, director nominees, executive officers, greater than five percent beneficial owners and their respective immediate family members, where the amount involved the transaction exceeds expected exceed $ , single calendar year. copy this policy available the Company\' website www apple com investor. The policy provides that the Audit Committee reviews certain transactions subject the policy and determines whether not approve ratify those transactions. doing , the Audit Committee takes into account, among other factors deems appropriate: \x95 the related person\' interest the transaction; \x95 the approximate dollar value the amount involved the transaction; \x95 the approximate dollar value the amount the related person\' interest the transaction without regard the amount any profit loss; \x95 whether the transaction was undertaken the ordinary course business the Company; \x95 whether the transaction with the related person proposed , was, entered into terms less favorable the Company than terms that could have been reached with unrelated third party; \x95 the purpose , and the potential benefits the Company , the transaction; and \x95 any other information regarding the transaction the related person the context the proposed transaction that would material investors light the circumstances the particular transaction. addition, the Audit Committee has delegated authority the Chair the Audit Committee pre-approve ratify certain transactions. summary any new transactions pre-approved ratified the Chair provided the full Audit Committee for its review connection with its next scheduled Audit Committee meeting. The Audit Committee has considered and adopted standing pre-approvals under the policy for limited transactions with related persons. Pre-approved transactions include: \x95 employment executive officers, subject certain conditions; \x95 any compensation paid director the compensation required reported the Company\' proxy statement under Item Regulation - promulgated the SEC; ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GG19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' \x95 any transaction with another company which related person\' only relationship employee (other than executive officer director) beneficial owner less than ten percent that company\' equity, the aggregate amount involved does not exceed the greater $ , , , two percent that company\' total annual revenue; \x95 any charitable contribution, grant endowment the Company charitable organization, foundation university which related person\' only relationship employee (other than executive officer director), the aggregate amount involved does not exceed the lesser $ , , , two percent the charitable organization\' total annual receipts; and \x95 any transaction where the related person\' interest arises solely from the ownership the Company\' common stock and all holders the Company\' common stock received the same benefit pro rata basis, such dividends. summary new transactions covered the standing pre-approvals described above provided the Audit Committee for its review each regularly scheduled Audit Committee meeting. The related person transactions described below were approved the Board Directors before this policy was adopted. Transactions with Related Persons \x95 The Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, Steve Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Company recognized total $ , , $ , , and $ , , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , , and , respectively. \x95 The Company enters into commercial dealings with The Walt Disney Company, Genentech and Google that considers arms-length, including sales arrangements and, the case Google, licensing agreements and similar arrangements and, the case The Walt Disney Company, iTunes Store content licensing agreements and similar agreements. The Company enters into these commercial dealings the ordinary course its business. . Jobs Director The Walt Disney Company. . Levinson the Chief Executive Officer and Director Genentech. . Schmidt the Chief Executive Officer and Director Google and . Gore Senior Advisor Google. The Company does not believe that any Messrs. Jobs Gore Drs. Levinson Schmidt has material direct indirect interest any such commercial dealings. The Board has determined all Board members, excluding Steve Jobs, are independent under the applicable NASDAQ rules. The Board has also determined the members each committee the Board are independent under the listing standards the NASDAQ Global Select Market. making these determinations, the Board considered, among other things, the types and amounts the commercial dealings between the Company and the companies and organizations with which the directors are affiliated. \x95 Tony Fadell\' spouse the Vice President, Human Resources the Company. She earned $ , salary and $ , bonus during fiscal year and participates the Company\' equity award and benefit programs. Her compensation commensurate with that her peers. Director Independence The Board has determined all Board members, excluding Steve Jobs, are independent under the applicable NASDAQ rules. The Board has also determined the members each committee the Board are independent under the listing standards the NASDAQ Global Select Market. making these determinations, the Board considered, among other things, the types and amounts the commercial dealings between the Company and the companies and organizations with which the directors are affiliated. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GG19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees accrued paid the Company\' independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees User-specified TAGGED TABLE Audit Fees ( ) $ , , $ , , Audit-Related Fees ( ) , , Tax Fees ( ) , , All Other Fees \x97 \x97 Total $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\' annual financial statements and internal control over financial reporting, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\' Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. Fiscal years and includes fees incurred connection with the Special Committee the Board Directors\' investigation into stock option practices. ( ) Audit-related fees comprise fees for professional services that are reasonably related the performance audit review the Company\' financial statements. ( ) The and tax fees include $ , and $ , , respectively, for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\' expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , and $ , , respectively, for international tax consulting and planning services. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Auditors Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the "Act"), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor independence policy also mandates that the audit and non-audit services and related budget approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. accordance with this policy, all services performed KPMG were pre-approved the Audit Committee. Subsequent the enactment the Act, the Audit Committee met with KPMG further understand the provisions the Act relates auditor independence. KPMG previously rotated the lead audit partner fiscal year compliance with the Act. KPMG also rotated other partners and , and will rotate additional partners appropriate. The Audit Committee will continue monitor the activities undertaken KPMG comply with the Act. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GG19701A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Reports Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - The information required this item set forth the exhibit index that follows the signature page this report. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK127:[07ZDP1 07ZDP19701]GI19701A.; \',USER=\'EPEREZ\', =\' -NOV- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}