{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, peripherals and personal computing and communicating solutions. The Company\' products include the Macintosh® line desktop and notebook computers, the Mac ® operating system, the iPod\x99 digital music player, and portfolio software and peripheral products for education, creative, consumer and business customers. The Company sells its products through its online stores, direct sales force, third-party wholesalers and resellers, and its own retail stores. The Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Business Strategy Digital Hub Apple committed bringing the best possible personal computing experience students, educators, creative professionals, businesses and consumers around the world through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals and Internet offerings, including Mac\x99 and the iTunes® Music Store\x99. The Company believes that personal computing has entered new era which the personal computer functions for both professionals and consumers the digital hub for advanced new digital devices such the Company\' iPod digital music players, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, digital still and movie cameras, and DVD players, and other electronic devices. The attributes the personal computer, including its ability run complex applications, possess high quality user interface, contain large and relatively inexpensive storage, and easily connect the Internet multiple ways and varying speeds, can individually add value these devices and interconnect them well. Apple the only company the personal computer industry that designs and manufactures the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated applications. Apple provides innovative industrial design, intuitive ease- -use, and built- networking, graphics, and multimedia capabilities. Thus, the Company uniquely positioned offer digital hub products and solutions. Apple develops products and technologies that adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability with peripherals and devices from other companies. Apple has played role the development, enhancement, promotion, and use numerous these industry standards, many which are discussed below. Retail Since inception its retail initiative , the Company has opened retail stores the United States through fiscal year and during the first quarter opened additional stores, including its first international store the Ginza Tokyo, Japan. The Company has located its stores high traffic ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. addition its own hardware, software and peripheral products, the Company\' stores carry variety third-party hardware and software products. One the main goals the retail initiative bring new customers the Company and expand its installed base through sales both first time personal computer buyers and those switching the Macintosh platform from competing operating system platforms. operating its own stores, the Company able better control the customer retail experience. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing personal computing products. that end, retail store configurations have expanded various sizes order accommodate market demands. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel, provide post-sale advice and support, offer wide selection third-party products selected complement the Company\' own products, host training and marketing presentations, and provide certain hardware support services. Additionally, the stores provide forum which the Company able present entire computing solutions users areas such digital photography, digital video, music, children\' software, and home and small business computing. Education For more than years, the Company has focused the use technology education. The Company believes that effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation student thought and ideas. The Company provides range products and services designed help schools maximize their investments technology. This manifested many the Company\' products and services, including hardware products like the eMac\x99 and the iBook® that are designed meet the needs education customers, video editing solutions, wireless networking capabilities, student information systems, one- -one learning solutions, and high-quality curriculum and professional development solutions. Creative Professionals Creative professionals constitute one the Company\' most important markets for both hardware and software products. This market also important many third-party developers who provide Macintosh compatible hardware and software solutions. Creative customers utilize the Company\' products for variety creative activities including digital video and film production and editing; digital video and film special effects, compositing, and titling; digital still photography; graphic design, publishing, and print production; music performance and production; audio production and sound design; and web design, development, and administration. The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions, including servers and desktop and portable Macintosh systems, incorporate the power, expandability, and features desired creative professionals. Additionally, the Company\' operating system, Mac , incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and features developer tools optimize system and application performance when running powerful creative solutions provided the Company third-party developers. The Company also offers various software solutions meet the needs its creative customers, many which are described below. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment currently operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States and the first quarter fiscal , opened its first international store Tokyo, Japan. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Segment Operating Performance," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and notebook personal computers, related devices and peripherals, networking and connectivity products, and various third-party hardware products. All the Company\' Macintosh products utilize PowerPC® RISC-based microprocessors. The Company\' entire line Macintosh systems, excluding servers, features the Company\' suite software for digital photography, music, and movies. Power Mac® The Power Mac line desktop personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. Powered the PowerPC processor, designed IBM and Apple, and featuring GHz front-side bus and the ability address 8GB memory, the current Power Mac utilizes -bit processing technology for advanced -bit computation, while running existing -bit applications natively. The PowerPC processor architecture based completely new execution core that features massively parallel computation, full symmetric multi-processing, two double precision floating point units and optimized Velocity Engine\x99. Power Mac systems, encased professional aluminum enclosure with computer controlled cooling for quiet operation, also include all models SuperDrive - DVD- drives, digital audio and PCI- expansion, and advanced input and output technologies including Gigabit Ethernet, FireWire® and USB ports. The system also supports Mbps AirPort Extreme® wireless networking and Bluetooth ready for wireless connections host Bluetooth-enabled peripherals. Prior the availability the Power Mac August , the Company\' Power Mac line during most fiscal featured PowerPC processors all models. The Company continues offer Power Macintosh system with single dual Ghz processor configuration. Xserve® and Xserve RAID Storage System Xserve, the Company\' first ever rack-mount server product, was designed for simple setup and remote management intensive input output ( ) applications such digital video, high-resolution digital imagery, and large databases. February , the Company upgraded its Xserve rack servers with more powerful processors, more storage capacity, and FireWire interface. the same time, the Company introduced the Xserve RAID Storage System, rack storage system that holds hot-swapable drive modules capable holding terabytes data. Xserve RAID architecture combines affordable, high-capacity ATA drive technology with Fibre Channel interface for reliable and fast data access. Xserve RAID provides RAID level throughput that supports affordable real-time high definition ( ) 1080i video editing. PowerBook ® The PowerBook family portable computers designed meet the mobile computing needs professionals and advanced consumer users. The -inch PowerBook features -inch wide-format active-matrix display, encased durable aluminum alloy enclosure, -inch thick, and weighs little pounds. The -inch PowerBook also features built- support for AirPort Extreme Mbps 11g wireless networking, new high-speed FireWire , backlit keyboard with ambient light sensors, and built- Bluetooth for wireless connection cell phones and other Bluetooth equipped peripherals. The -inch PowerBook features -inch, active-matrix display housed lightweight, durable aluminum alloy enclosure weighing approximately pounds. The -inch PowerBook features high-speed PowerPC processor, NVIDIA graphics, built- Bluetooth wireless networking, and battery ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' life five hours single charge. September , the Company introduced new -inch PowerBook , which features -inch widescreen display, and encased sleek aluminum design weighing little pounds. This product line addition complements the Company\' other two PowerBook models, the -inch and -inch PowerBook G4s that were introduced January and updated September . iMac® The iMac line desktop computers targeted education and consumer markets. The Company\' iMac product line features innovative industrial design that incorporates adjustable -inch -inch thin film transistor (TFT) active-matrix flat panel display and ultra-compact base. November , new -inch iMac model was released. All models utilize PowerPC processors, fast MHz DDR memory, NVIDIA graphics, two FireWire and three high-speed USB ports. The iMac also offers the latest wireless communications with support for Mbps AirPort Extreme and Bluetooth wireless connectivity. eMac\x99 The eMac, which targeted primarily the Company\' education and consumer customers, features PowerPC processor, high resolution -inch flat cathode ray tube (CRT) display, SuperDrive option, and preserves the all- -one compact design the original iMac favored many the Company\' education and consumer customers. iBook ® The iBook designed meet the portable computing needs education and consumer users. The current iBooks, upgraded October , feature PowerPC processors and either -inch -inch display. These systems offer advanced connectivity with AirPort Extreme and Bluetooth, and certain models include DDR memory and slot-load Combo drives for burning CDs and watching DVDs. Each iBook outfitted with sleek polycarbonate plastic enclosure and weighs little pounds. Peripheral Products The Company sells certain associated Apple-branded computer hardware peripherals, including iPod\x99 digital music players, iSight\x99 digital video cameras, and range high quality flat panel TFT active-matrix digital color displays. The Company also sells variety third-party Macintosh compatible hardware products directly end users through both its retail and online stores, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, personal digital assistants, and various other computing products and supplies. iPod\x99 The Company\' newest iPod portable music player, compatible with both the Macintosh and Windows platforms, smaller and lighter than previous versions and available three models with storage capacity either 10GB, 20GB, 40GB; the latter holding , songs. addition MP3, iPod now supports the Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) audio format. The new iPod models also feature solid-state interfaces and the 20GB and 40GB models include the iPod Dock, which facilitates fast and easy connection computer stereo. The iPod\' functionality extends well beyond playing music. Other key capabilities include data storage, calendar and contact information utility, and selection games. With the addition third-party iPod peripherals, the capabilities certain iPods can enhanced include voice recording and photo downloading from certain digital cameras. Along with the iPod, the Company has developed seamless end- -end music solution with the Company\' iTunes® digital music management software and the iTunes Music Store, service that consumers may use purchase music over the Internet. Further discussion these related music offerings may found below under the headings "Software Products and Computer Technologies" and "Internet Software, Integration, and Services." ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' iSight\x99 The Company introduced the iSight digital video camera and the beta version its iChat\x99 software application June . Together they enable high-quality audio and videoconferences between two Macintosh systems over broadband connections. iSight small, portable aluminum alloy camera with all audio, video and power provided single FireWire cable. iSight features custom designed lens with auto-focus and high-end CCD sensor provide high-resolution images and full-motion video frames per second. iSight includes integrated microphone that suppresses ambient noise for clear digital audio. With its -board processor, iSight automatically adjusts color, white balance, sharpness and contrast provide high-quality images with accurate color reproduction most lighting conditions. iSight designed center-mounted the top computer screen and uses its integrated tilt and rotate mechanism easily position the camera for natural, face- -face video conferencing. Displays The Company\' all-digital, active-matrix LCD flat panel displays, including the -inch Cinema Display®, -inch Apple Cinema Display® and the -inch Apple Studio Display®, produce flicker-free images with twice the brightness, sharpness, and contrast ratio typical CRT display. Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for education, creative, consumer and business customers, including Mac , the Company\' proprietary operating system software for the Macintosh; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education and business oriented application software. Operating System Software During , the Company introduced the first customer release its new client operating system, Mac , and its first significant upgrade, Mac version . its introduction, Mac offered advanced functionality built open-source UNIX-based foundation and incorporated the most fundamental changes both core technology and user interface design made the Company the Mac single upgrade since the original introduction the Macintosh . Mac features memory protection, pre-emptive multi-tasking, and symmetric multiprocessing. Mac includes Apple\' Quartz\x99® graphics engine (based the Internet-standard Portable Document Format) for enhanced graphics and broad font support, OpenGL for enhanced graphics and gaming, and Apple\' new user interface named "Aqua ® ," which combines superior ease- -use with new functionality. January , the Company made Mac the default operating system all new Macintosh systems. August , the Company introduced Mac version (code named "Jaguar"), the second significant upgrade the original Mac version. Jaguar included new Mail application designed manage junk mail; iChat, AIM-compatible instant messenger; system-wide Address Book; Inkwell\x99 handwriting recognition; improved Universal Access; enhanced Finder\x99; updated version QuickTime®, the Company\' multimedia software for playing, interacting with viewing video, audio, and graphics files; and updated version Sherlock®, the Company\' advanced Internet search engine. Jaguar also featured accelerated graphics performance, increased compatibility with Windows networks, and UNIX-based foundation with enhancements including FreeBSD and GCC -based developer tools. October , the Company released Mac version (code named "Panther"), the Company\' current version Mac . Panther incorporates more than new features including completely new Finder\x99; Exposé, new way organize windows and instantly see all open windows once; FileVault\x99, new feature that secures the contents home directory with -bit AES encryption; iChat , complete desktop video conferencing solution; and enhanced support for use Windows-based networks. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Server Software and Server Solutions Mac server software was initially introduced May , followed Mac Server version (code named "Jaguar Server") that was released August . Jaguar Server delivers high-performance services for Internet and web serving, filing, printing, and networking services needed manage network Mac, UNIX, and Windows clients. provides performance and stability through full pre-emptive multi-tasking, symmetric multiprocessing, protected memory, advanced virtual memory, software RAID support, and support for networking and security standards. Jaguar Server also includes Apple\' Open Directory architecture for centralized management network resources using LDAPv3 directory services and suite built- , standards-based Internet services like optimized Apache web server for high-performance hosting secure dynamic web sites and QuickTime Streaming Server and QuickTime Broadcaster for streaming live events over the Internet. Jaguar Server also comes with flexible mail server that supports POP and secure IMAP, well WebMail for browser-based email access. October , the Company began shipping the current version its server operating system, which called Mac Server version "Panther Server." This release integrates leading open source and open standards server software with easy- -use management tools that make easy serve Macintosh, Windows and Linux clients. Panther Server includes powerful open source solutions and easy- -use server management capabilities. New features Panther Server include Server Admin tool for easily setting multiple servers; Open Directory for hosting scalable LDAP directory and Kerberos authentication services; Samba for providing login and home directory support for Windows clients; and the JBoss application server for running powerful J2EE applications. Apple Remote Desktop\x99 for Mac software enables users, teachers and administrators remotely manage other Macintosh systems anywhere local network, AirPort ® wireless network across the Internet. With Apple Remote Desktop, teachers can view students\' computer screens, perform group demonstrations and help individuals with real-time screen-sharing, text chat and the "request attention" command. System administrators can provide remote assistance, get comprehensive system profiles, reconfigure system settings and quickly and easily distribute software applications across hundreds computers\x97all from one central location over both Ethernet and AirPort wireless networks. Apple Remote Desktop supports multiple levels administrator access, each with its own password, providing secure way for teachers department-level administrators assist users while restricting privileges for deleting items changing system settings. Professional Application Software Final Cut Pro® video editing application designed meet the demanding needs professional video editors providing them with high-performance, scalable, and cost-effective solution for editing virtually any format: , , and film. Final Cut Pro includes tools for editing, compositing and effects, color-correction and audio. Final Cut Pro , released June , introduced Extreme, multi-stream real-time effects engine, new interface customization tools, high performance codecs for uncompressed and video, and -bit floating point (per channel) image processing. Final Cut Pro also includes three completely new integrated tools\x97LiveType for creating animated, broadcast-quality titles, Soundtrack for music composition, and Compressor for batch encoding and output high-quality MPEG- , MPEG- , and QuickTime files directly from Final Cut Pro \' timeline. Version Final Cut Pro was released November and included optimizations for the Power Mac and Mac Panther. Shake ® , upgrade the Company\' compositing and visual effects software designed for large format film and video productions, was announced April and released June . Shake includes new Mac only features such the Shake Qmaster network render management software and unlimited network rendering licenses which allow visual effects artists easily distribute rendering tasks across cluster Apple\' Xserve rack servers desktop Power Macintosh computers for enhanced performance ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' and efficiency. Shake also includes new visual effects features available Mac , Linux and IRIX customers including motion-tracking and real-time broadcast preview. The Company acquired Emagic, leading provider professional software and hardware solutions for computer based music production, during the fourth quarter . Emagic\' most popular product, Logic®, actively used musicians around the world and professionals music production, film scoring, and post-production facilities. combines composition, notation and audio production facilities one comprehensive product. Logic Platinum offers comprehensive set music creation tools featuring rock-solid MIDI timing and synchronization, mixing and automation with total recall, and non-destructive real-time editing both audio and MIDI. also offers MIDI timing with PPQN and sends and receives synchronized MIDI clock, MTC, MMC and word clock signals, making ideal for film, and video post-production facilities. DVD Studio Pro ® was announced April and released August . completely new DVD authoring product, rebuilt from the ground with new user interface, professionally designed and fully customizable templates, innovative new menu editor, timeline-based track editing and new software-based MPEG- encoder. Consumer, Education and Business Oriented Application Software Introduced January , iLife\x99 the Company\' integrated suite digital lifestyle applications that features the Company\' iTunes®, iPhoto\x99, iMovie\x99 ® , and iDVD\x99 software applications. These applications are integrated allow users easy access their digital music, photos and movies from within each application. All these iLife applications come preinstalled the Company\' Macintosh systems, except for iDVD, which only available Macintosh systems configured with SuperDrive. iTunes® digital music management application that lets users create and manage their own digital music library. iTunes organizes music using searching, browsing and playlist features. supports both audio and MP3 burning, features graphic equalizer and cross fading between songs, and supports automatic synchronization with the music stored iPod. July , the Company introduced iTunes , featuring Smart Playlists, which automatically and dynamically updates playlists based simple rules set the user, and Sound Check for consistent volume playback. April , the Company launched iTunes , which integrated the Company\' iTunes Music Store. Further discussion the iTunes Music Store may found below under the heading "Internet Software, Integration, and Services." October , the Company launched iTunes for Windows, the first version the Company\' digital music management software for users Windows-based personal computers. iTunes for Windows includes all the same features the Macintosh version, including MP3 and AAC encoding from audio CDs, Smart Playlists, free Internet radio stations, and the ability burn custom playlists CDs and MP3 CDs, burn content DVDs back- entire music collection and share music between networked computers via Rendezvous\x99, the Company\' zero configuration networking technology. iMovie®, the Company\' easy- -use consumer digital video editing software for creation home and classroom movies, features enhanced user interface, improved audio editing capabilities, enhanced controls for titling and transitions, and added special effects. iDVD\x99 consumer oriented software that makes easy turn iMovie files, QuickTime files and digital pictures into DVDs that can played most consumer DVD players. iDVD simplifies DVD authoring including professionally designed themes and drag-and-drop simplicity. iPhoto\x99 consumer oriented digital photo software that makes easy import, edit, save, share, and print digital photos, well organize and manage entire digital photo collection containing thousands photos. Users are able view their photos full-screen; use the slide show feature accompanied their favorite music; automatically create custom web pages their photos; email photos friends and family; order professionally-processed prints and enlargements online; easily design and order custom- ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' printed, linen-covered hard bound photo books online. Prints, enlargements, and hardbound book production are currently only available . and Canadian customers. The Company\' iChat software application and the iSight digital video camera together enable high-quality audio and video conferences between two Macintosh systems over broadband connections. iChat also enables audio conferences over dial- connections the Internet. iChat requires setup configuration beyond installing the software and plugging FireWire video camera and microphone, such iSight certain third-party FireWire based cameras with microphones. Final Cut® Express, introduced January , based Apple\' award-winning Final Cut Pro software. Final Cut Express enables small business users, educators, students and advanced hobbyists perform professional-quality digital video editing. Final Cut Express includes key features used video editors such the same interface and workflow Final Cut Pro, powerful video editing tools, hundreds special effects, and easy delivery output DVD, the Internet, tape. Keynote\x99 the Company\' presentation software introduced January that gives users the ability create high-quality presentations. Designed easy use, Keynote includes professionally designed themes, advanced typography, professional-quality image resizing, animated charts and tables that can created quickly, and cinematic-quality transitions. Keynote imports and exports PowerPoint, QuickTime, and PDF files simplify the creation and sharing presentations. AppleWorks® integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases and presentations single application. Intended easy- -use product for the Company\' consumer and education customers, AppleWorks makes simple create professional-looking documents the classroom and home. FileMaker Corporation, wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes desktop-based database management application software for Mac and Windows-based systems. The FileMaker ® Pro database software and related products offer strong relational databases and advanced desktop- -web publishing capabilities. Third-Party Software Products Thousands third-party software titles and solutions are available for the Macintosh platform. The Company sells variety these third-party software products directly end users through both its retail and online stores. Internet Software, Integration, and Services Apple\' Internet strategy focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' product lines. The Company\' Internet products and technologies adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability. easy Internet Setup Assistant included with the Mac . iTunes Music Store\x99 April , the Company launched the iTunes Music Store the United States, online music store that allows Macintosh customers find, purchase, and download music for cents per song , most cases, $ per album. The iTunes Music Store fully integrated with one-click download directly into the latest version the iTunes software, allowing customers purchase, download, organize, share, and transfer their digital music iPod using single software application. Requiring subscription fee, the iTunes Music Store with iTunes software offers customers broad range personal rights the songs purchased, including playing songs three computers, burning songs onto unlimited number CDs for personal use, playing songs unlimited number iPods, and using songs certain applications such iPhoto, iMovie, and iDVD. Users can easily search the contents the entire music ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' store locate songs title, artist, album, browse the entire contents the music store genre and artist. Users can also listen free -second preview any song the store. The second generation the iTunes Music Store for both Macintosh and Windows users became available October . New features the music store include online gift certificates that can sent family and friends via -mail, "allowance" feature that enables users automatically deposit funds into iTunes Music Store account every month, and the availability audio books for purchase directly from the iTunes Music Store. The Company exploring ways enhance awareness and promote use the iTunes Music Store, including arrangements with America Online, Inc. (AOL) integrate links the iTunes Music Store into AOL\' Music site and Pepsi-Cola North America give away songs from the iTunes Music Store. Safari\x99 June , the Company introduced Safari , the Company\' new Mac compatible web browser that capable loading web pages rapidly. Safari uses the advanced interface technologies underlying Mac and includes built- Google search; SnapBack\x99 instantly return search results; new way name, organize and present bookmarks; tabbed browsing; and automatic "pop- " blocking. The Company also released software development kit that allows developers embed the Safari HTML rendering engine directly into their applications. Quicktime ® QuickTime, the Company\' multimedia software for Macintosh and Windows platforms, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet and playback high-quality audio and video computers. The current version QuickTime, QuickTime , features support for the open-standard MPEG format. QuickTime includes the new Instant- Streaming feature that eliminates buffer delays and provides users with the ability quickly and easily scrub through streaming media content locate and instantly view specific sections. addition, QuickTime running Mac now supports JPEG , the next generation JPEG standard that allows users capture still images higher quality and smaller file size than ever before. QuickTime also includes AAC, the standard MPEG- audio format. AAC the next generation professional-quality audio format that delivers superior sound quality with reduced file sizes. The Company also offers several other QuickTime products, including QuickTime Pro, suite software tools that allows creation and editing Internet-ready audio and video files and allows user add special effects and other features QuickTime movies; QuickTime Streaming Server which facilitates the broadcasting streaming digital video; and QuickTime Broadcaster that allows users quickly and easily produce professional-quality live events for online delivery. .Mac \x99 The Company\' Mac offering suite Internet services that for annual fee provides Macintosh users with powerful Internet tools Mac features email service with IMAP, POP web-based access, 100MB iDisk Internet storage, and hosting for personalized homepages and shared digital photo albums. Also included with Mac McAfee\' Virex anti-virus software and Backup, personal back- solution allowing users archive data their Internet storage, , DVD. Wireless Connectivity and Networking AirPort Extreme \x99® AirPort Extreme, introduced January , the Company\' next generation - wireless networking technology based the new ultra-fast 11g standard. With speeds Mbps, AirPort Extreme delivers almost five times the data rate today\' 11b based products, yet fully compatible with the millions 11b - devices around the world. AirPort Extreme Base Stations can serve ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Macintosh and Windows users simultaneously, provide wireless bridging extend the range beyond just one base station, and support USB printer sharing allow multiple users wirelessly share USB printers connected directly the base station. Embedded into Mac Bluetooth technology. Bluetooth emerging industry standard for wirelessly connecting computers and peripherals that supports transmission data Mbps within range approximately feet. The Company\' Bluetooth technology for Mac lets customers wirelessly share files between Macintosh systems, synchronize and share contact information with Palm- based PDAs, and access the Internet through Bluetooth-enabled cell phones. Bluetooth USB adaptor can Bluetooth-enable any USB-based Macintosh computer running Mac version higher. The Company\' Rendezvous\x99 networking technology based open Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Standard Protocols such , ARP and DNS. Rendezvous uses industry standard networking protocols and zero configuration technology automatically discover and connect devices over any network, including Ethernet -based wireless networks like the Company\' AirPort product. Major developers such Canon, Epson, Hewlett-Packard, Lexmark, Philips, Sybase, World Book and Xerox have announced support for Rendezvous broad range products including network printers, consumer electronics, enterprise database management and educational applications. The Company has made the Rendezvous source code freely available allowing developers use Rendezvous technology their network-enabled devices software applications. The Rendezvous source code includes software support UNIX, Linux, and Windows-based systems and devices. Rendezvous support built into Mac . The Company developed FireWire ® technology, also referred IEEE , which high-speed serial technology for connecting digital devices such digital camcorders and cameras desktop and portable computers. With its high data-transfer speed and "hot plug-and-play" capability, FireWire has become established cross-platform industry standard for both consumers and professionals and the data interface choice for today\' digital video and audio devices, well external hard drives and other high-speed peripherals. FireWire currently included all Macintosh systems and data transfer technology utilized iPod. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for Apple customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan fee-based service that typically includes three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. Apple Training offers comprehensive system administration and development training Apple technologies, together with certification programs that test customers\' skills and verify their technical proficiency. Apple Professional Services offers range custom, personalized technical services, including Internet consulting and setup, installation and integration services. The Company also offers specialized loan programs including loans for consumers, students, and educators. Apple also provides leasing solutions for its education institution customers and its business and professional customers. The Company uses several third-party lenders originate and carry these loans and leases, all which are non-recourse the Company. Specialized Education Products and Services The Company offers variety unique services and products its education customers, including separate online store for education customers offering special education price lists and promotions; special financing programs for - and higher education students, faculty, and staff; special edition its productivity software suite, AppleWorks, that cross platform for both Macintosh and Windows computers; the iBook Wireless Mobile Lab that allows teachers and students share iBook computers, printer, and wireless network Internet connection stored cart for mobility between classrooms; and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' three special Digital Media Studio solutions designed for education, including one that integrated into mobile cart. Additionally, Apple Professional Services offers range technical services education customers. , Apple acquired PowerSchool Inc., privately held provider web-based student information systems for - schools and school districts. PowerSchool ® software products give school administrators and teachers the ability easily and cost-effectively manage student records and give parents real-time access track their children\' performance via the Internet. PowerSchool offers the option remote hosting with application service provider model. Markets and Distribution The Company\' customers are primarily the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. Certain customers are attracted Macintosh computers for variety reasons, including the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh computer\' intuitive ease use, advanced graphics capabilities, industrial design features the Company\' hardware products, and ability Macintosh computers network and communicate with other computer systems and environments. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late 1970s. Over % the Company\' net sales were education customers the United States, including sales elementary and secondary schools and college and university customers. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. individual customer accounted for more than % net sales , . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly education customers, consumers, businesses, and certain resellers through its retail stores the United States, through one its online stores around the world. Total direct and indirect sales attributable the Company\' online stores totaled approximately $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion for fiscal years , and , respectively. Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The market for the design, manufacture, and sale personal computers and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. This market continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development, which have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and have resulted the frequent introduction new products and significant price, feature, and performance competition. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors the market for personal computers include relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result innovations competing platforms. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing platforms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DE1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END The Company\' initial success with the development end- -end music offering, which includes the iTunes digital music management software, iTunes Music Store and iPod digital music player, has already encouraged significant competition this area from other companies, many whom have greater financial, marketing, and manufacturing resources than those the Company. The Company believes maintains competitive advantage more effectively integrating the entire end- -end music solution, including the hardware (iPod), software (iTunes) and music content (iTunes Music Store). Raw Materials Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability constraints and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position. this time, such vendors include Agere Systems, Inc., Ambit Microsystems Corporation, ASUSTeK Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Compal Corporation, Hon Hai Precision Industry ., Ltd., IBM Corporation, International Display Technology, Inventec Appliances Corporation, . Phillips ., Ltd., Matsushita, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Nvidia Corp., Quanta Computer, Inc., Samsung Electronics, Synaptics, Inc., and Toshiba Corporation. Research and Development Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products and technology the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and the Internet. The Company\' research and development expenditures, before any charges for purchased -process research and development, totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, peripheral systems, and software. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the United States and number foreign countries for "Apple," the Apple logo, "Macintosh," and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The United States represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\' net sales fiscal came from sales customers inside the United States. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, and Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod are performed third-party vendors Japan, Taiwan and China. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Seasonal Business Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the school year, respectively. Past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for Apple software and for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most Apple hardware products all the Company\' major markets. Backlog the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' immediately following new product introductions because over ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the subject these laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse affect the Company. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member states, Japan and California. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse affect the Company. Employees September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , employees and additional , temporary employees and contractors. Available Information Beginning fiscal , the Company\' Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, are available its website www apple com investor when such reports are available the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\' Public Reference Room Fifth Street, , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC http://www sec gov. The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\' references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. Item . Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California and Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, and the Asia Pacific region. Leased space the United States includes , square feet retail space. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns its manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, which has approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento and Cork facilities also house ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' customer support call centers. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Item . Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain legal matters , which did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\' results operations. Antor Media Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiff, Antor Media filed this action September , the United States District Court the Eastern District Texas alleging infringement the Company and other defendants patent , , relating "Method and Apparatus for Transmitting Information Recorded Information Storage Means from Central Server Subscribers via High Data Rate Digital Telecommunications Network." Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Apple Corps Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Apple Computer, Inc. . Apple Corps Ltd. Plaintiff, Apple Corps filed this action July , the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, London alleging that the Company has breached agreement which resolved earlier trademark litigation regarding use the Apple marks. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion October , , challenging jurisdiction the . October , , the Company filed case the United States District Court for the Northern District California requesting declaratory judgment that the Company has not breached the agreement. Articulate Systems, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Articulate filed this action March the United States District Court Massachusetts claiming patent infringement relating voice recognition technology. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The case was stayed for several months pending resolution four summary judgment motions filed the Company, all which were denied the Court. Through series corporate transactions the assets belonging Plaintiff were acquired subsidiary, Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products . (" & "). & filed for bankruptcy November and being liquidated part the bankruptcy. The case has been inactive since approximately May , pending the resolution the & bankruptcy and liquidation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Bancroft . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Bancroft filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles Superior Court behalf potentially nationwide class purchasers certain Power Macintosh computers. Plaintiff alleged violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") arising from allegedly poor performance while running the Company\' Mac operating system, specifically relating hardware acceleration, QuickTime movie hardware acceleration, graphics performance and DVD movie playback. The parties reached settlement and the Court granted preliminary approval September , . The final approval hearing set for January , . Settlement the matter will not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. BIAX Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff BIAX filed this action September , the United States District Court Delaware claiming patent infringement relating dual processor technology. IBM and Motorola were added defendants amended complaint. Plaintiff sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the complaint, denied all allegations and asserted numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The parties settled this case August and the matter concluded. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Dan, . . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiffs filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles Superior Court against the Company and other members the industry behalf nationwide class purchasers certain computer hard drives. The case alleges violations Civil Code Section ("Unfair Competition"), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") and false advertising related the size the drives. Plaintiffs allege that calculation hard drive size using the decimal method misrepresents the actual size the drive. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The case stayed pending resolution whether the case will considered "complex" and potentially new judge assigned. The Company beginning its investigation these allegations. Digital Development Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff, Digital Development Corporation filed this action April , the United States District Court New Jersey, claiming patent infringement two patents, , , and , , , related "System and Method Protecting Integrity Computer Data and Software." Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. The complaint has not yet been served the Company. Dowhal . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this representative action San Francisco County Superior Court February , alleging that the Company and numerous other defendants have participated false advertising and unfair business practices related alleged misrepresentation printer speed. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation California Business and Professions Code § and § . Plaintiff requests injunction, restitution and other unspecified damages and relief. The Company was served February , . Apple filed response March , . The parties are discovery. Dynacore Holdings Corp. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Dynacore filed this action June , United States District Court for the Southern District New York against the Company and thirteen other defendants claiming patent infringement relating IEEE technology, also known FireWire. Plaintiff claims that any computer system other electronic product that uses complies with the IEEE standard violates the patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Defendants are seeking amend the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' pleading assert counterclaim for inequitable conduct against Dynacore. The case was initially stayed pending the Federal Circuit\' decision Datapoint Corp. . Standard Microsystems Corp., related case which plaintiff claimed that its patent was infringed products complying with the fast Ethernet standard. February , the Federal Circuit affirmed the judgment non-infringement Datapoint, and the District Court lifted the stay this action. The defendants this action filed joint motion for summary judgment based upon the decision Datapoint. The Court heard the motion October , and granted summary judgment favor the defendants February , . Dynacore has appealed the ruling. The parties have filed their respective briefs, and the case scheduled for oral argument before the Federal Circuit Court January , . Hawaii Structural Iron Workers and Pension Trust Fund . Apple Computer, Inc. and Steven . Jobs; Young . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Hsu . Apple Computer Inc. Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiff\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. John . Davis Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court December , , alleging that the Company has engaged unfair and deceptive business practices relating its AppleCare Extended Service and Warranty Plan. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation the California Business and Professions Code § and § , breach the Song-Beverly Warranty Act, intentional misrepresentation and concealment. The Company was served December , and continuing its investigation the allegations. Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. Apple filed motion October , disqualify Plaintiff\' counsel, which the Court approved. The case set for trial February , . MacTech . Apple Computer, Inc.; Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Computer International, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Elite Computers and Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; The Neighborhood Computer Store . Apple Computer, Inc. (All Santa Clara County Superior Court). Five resellers have filed similar lawsuits against the Company for various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The parties are discovery. October , , one the resellers, Macadam was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order -instate reseller, which the Court denied. hearing its motion for preliminary injunction scheduled for December , . Palmieri . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles Superior Court behalf nationwide class purchasers certain PowerBooks. The case alleges violations Civil Code Section (Unfair Competition) and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") arising from alleged design defect the PowerBooks which purportedly causes marks and dead pixels the LCD ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' screens. Plaintiffs amended their complaint allege additional defect the new " PowerBook, introduced September, , which purportedly causes "white spots" the screen. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company\' response not yet due. The Company beginning its investigation these allegations. TIBCO Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this case August , United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging trademark infringement the Company for using the mark "Rendezvous." Plaintiff\' mark "TIBCO Rendezvous." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the complaint denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, invalidity and dilution. UNOVA, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff UNOVA filed this patent infringement action against the Company and six other defendants May , the Central District California for infringement eight UNOVA patents related "Smart Battery Management." Plaintiff alleges that the Company\' portable computers manufactured since infringe these eight patents. Plaintiff has filed similar lawsuits against other companies addition the -defendants this case. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability. The case discovery and set for trial March , . Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All share price and per share data and numbers common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Item . Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ ( ) $ $ Diluted $ $ $ ( ) $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net gains before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. net loss before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million was ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' recognized . , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent and was reversed. , settlement the Company\' forward stock purchase agreement resulted gain $ million. Favorable cumulative-effect type adjustments $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plans," "predicts," and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\' discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations requires the Company\' management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Item this Form - describe the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\' consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions that believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management believes the following critical accounting policies. That , they are both important the portrayal the Company\' financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products ( ., hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the United States, and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed and determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which could have material adverse impact the Company\' results operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\' assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\' distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\' financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each period that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product lifecycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer industry subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\' products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are recorded. The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\' products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\' products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Valuation Long-Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangibles The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount such asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such assets are considered impaired, the impairment recognized earnings equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds their fair market value. Although the Company has recognized material impairment adjustments related its property, plant, and equipment identifiable intangibles during the past three fiscal years, except those made conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration the Company\' business geographic region business segment the future, including deterioration the performance individual retail stores, could lead such impairment adjustments the future periods which such business issues are identified. The Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . result, the Company longer amortizes goodwill but instead performs review goodwill for impairment annually, earlier indicators potential impairment exist. The review goodwill for potential impairment highly subjective and requires that: ( ) goodwill allocated various reporting units the Company\' business which relates; ( ) the Company estimate the fair value those reporting units which the goodwill relates; and ( ) the Company determine the book value those reporting units. the estimated fair value reporting units with allocated goodwill determined less than their book value, the Company required estimate the fair value all identifiable assets and liabilities those reporting units manner similar purchase price allocation for acquired business. This requires independent valuation certain internally developed and unrecognized assets including -process research and development and developed technology. Once this process complete, the amount goodwill impairment, any, can determined. Based the Company\' estimates September , , there was impairment goodwill. However, changes various circumstances including changes the Company\' market capitalization, changes the Company\' forecasts, and changes the Company\' internal business structure could cause one more the Company\' reporting units valued differently thereby causing impairment goodwill. Additionally, response changes the personal computer industry and changes global regional economic conditions, the Company may strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing, otherwise exiting businesses, which could result impairment property, plant, and equipment, identifiable intangibles, goodwill. Warranty Costs The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical experience failure rates. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\' results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. Similarly, the Company subsequently realizes deferred tax assets that were previously determined unrealizable, the respective valuation allowance would reversed, resulting positive adjustment earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\' expectations could have material impact the Company\' results operations and financial position. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales ( )% % Retail net sales % \x97 Other segments net sales ( ) % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , Europe Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Japan Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales % \x97 Other segments Macintosh unit sales ( ) % % Total Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , % , Net Sales Product: Power Macintosh net sales ( ) $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , PowerBook net sales , % % iMac net sales , ( )% , % , iBook net sales ( )% % Total Macintosh net sales , ( )% , % , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , % % Software ( ) % % Service and other sales % ( )% Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Power Macintosh unit sales ( ) ( )% ( )% PowerBook unit sales % % iMac unit sales , ( )% , % , iBook unit sales ( )% % Total Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , % , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , iPod unit sales % \x97 \x97 iPod net sales $ % $ \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Notes: ( ) Other segments consists Asia Pacific and FileMaker. Certain net sales and related recent acquisitions and Internet services have been reclassified from Other segments net sales Americas segment net sales conform the presentation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Power Macintosh figures include server sales. ( ) Net sales peripherals and other hardware include sales iPod, Apple-branded and third-party displays, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. ( ) Net sales per Macintosh unit sold derived dividing total Macintosh net sales total Macintosh unit sales. Fiscal Year versus Net sales increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % year-over-year approximately million units . Several factors have contributed favorably net sales during including: \x95 The Retail segment\' net sales grew $ million during from $ million , increase %. While the Company\' customers may elect purchase product from their local Apple Retail store rather than through other preexisting sales channels the United States, the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales incremental total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." \x95 Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose $ million % during compared , which follows $ million % increase compared . The current year increase was primarily driven the $ million, %, year-over-year increase iPod net sales $ million. All the Company\' operating segments experienced substantial increases iPod net sales and unit sales during . iPod sales during were favorably affected the introduction substantially redesigned new models, which are compatible with both Macintosh and Windows operating systems and the Company\' introduction its iTunes Music Store for the Macintosh operating system April . The Company\' iPod digital music player sold variety resellers, many which not currently market the Company\' Macintosh systems. The Company has expanded this distribution network during , which has contributed the current year increase iPod unit sales %. addition the iPod, the increase net sales peripherals and other hardware during also reflects overall increase net sales other computer accessories including AirPort cards and base stations, which facilitate wireless connectivity; third party digital cameras and printers; and number portable computer related accessories. \x95 Although total Macintosh unit sales were down % , unit sales the Company\' portable systems were relatively strong primarily due the % , unit increase PowerBook unit sales, slightly offset % , unit decrease iBook unit sales. The increase PowerBook net sales $ million % due primarily the success the Company\' new -inch, -inch and -inch models that were introduced during . The decline iBook consumer portable sales during primarily due lower average price per unit. Portable systems represented % all Macintosh systems sold versus % and % , which reflects overall industry trend towards portable systems. \x95 The Company\' average net sales per Macintosh unit sold increased % $ , result various changes overall unit mix towards relatively higher-priced PowerBook systems and increase direct sales primarily from the Company\' retail and online stores, offset somewhat lower year-over-year pricing comparable Macintosh systems for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure, particularly with the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' iBook consumer portable systems. PowerBook and Power Macintosh systems accounted for % total unit sales versus % . \x95 Net sales software increased $ million % during compared the prior year and reflects higher net sales Apple-branded application and server software and third-party software. Net sales Apple-branded application and server software increased due the introduction several new software titles during the year including Final Cut Express, iLife, and Keynote, well from higher sales software related recent acquisitions including PowerSchool and Emagic. Growth net sales third-party software during was particularly strong the Americas Segment due strong sales software the Company\' online store and its Retail segment. \x95 Service and other sales rose $ million % during and results from significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) extended maintenance and support services, well the Company\' Internet related services. Increased net sales associated with APP are primarily the result increasing attach rates over the last several years. Increased net sales associated with Internet services are due net sales from the iTunes Music Store introduced April and increased net sales the Company\' Mac Internet service. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales during were negatively impacted the following factors: \x95 Total unit sales desktop systems fell % during compared . iMac systems unit sales declined % from resulting from shift sales away from desktop systems favor portables. Also, the current flat panel iMac form factor was the eighth quarter its life cycle the end and did not experience significant enhancements until the release the -inch flat-panel iMac November . \x95 Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . For the first nine months compared the same period , unit sales Power Macintosh systems decreased %, which representative the decline Power Macintosh systems sales experienced the Company during recent years and also believed attributable delays purchasing pending the release the Power Mac . expected, this trend reversed the fourth quarter with unit sales increasing % during the quarter compared the same period the prior year due largely the new Power Mac , which the Company introduced June and began shipping the end fiscal . The decline Power Macintosh sales over the last several years also reflects the shift sales portable systems, particularly PowerBooks. addition, the Company continues believe that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers. Additionally, some the Company\' professional and creative customers may have delayed upgrades their systems anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their professionally oriented Macintosh software applications run natively Mac . Currently there are many applications that run natively Mac , including Adobe\' PhotoShop and QuarkXPress ; however, there assurance that this will result additional sales Macintosh systems, particularly Power Macintosh units. \x95 The Company has continued experience ongoing weakness its . education channel during . Net sales and unit sales . education during were down % and %, respectively, compared . This decline was due decrease - sales, partially offset increase higher education sales. Net sales declined primarily result continued shift mix away from higher priced Power Macintosh and iMac systems towards lower priced eMac and iBook systems, although the Company did experience significant increase sales its PowerBook systems primarily higher education customers. Portable systems accounted for approximately % total unit sales the education channel during , compared approximately % . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company\' one- -one ( : ) learning solutions are complete solution consisting iBook portable system for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server. The Company has experienced significant competition : learning solutions and, accordingly, has experienced lower sales price per unit, average, these transactions. The Company believes weakness its . education channel, particularly - , has been caused multiple factors including funding pressures due weak economic conditions, large budget deficits many states, and increased competition particularly for desktop computers. Although the Company has taken steps, and will continue take steps, address weakness the . education channel, remains difficult anticipate when and this negative trend will reverse. \x95 The personal computer industry general, and the Company specifically, continue see relatively soft demand for their products. Sales professional and consumer oriented Macintosh systems remain far below levels experienced fiscal and earlier. Difficult global economic conditions during the past several years exacerbated the economic and political uncertainties caused terrorist activities and the associated international responses have clearly had pronounced negative effect the overall demand for the Company\' products virtually all its markets. Further, growth the overall personal computer industry has slowed due the high market penetration personal computers and lengthening consumer, creative, and business personal computer upgrade cycles. Fiscal Year versus Net sales increased $ million % during compared , while Macintosh unit sales were relatively flat year-over-year approximately million units. geographic basis, performance the domestic market was relatively strong, especially when considering the performance the Company\' Retail segment, which operated during exclusively the United States. However, the European and Japanese markets remained sluggish throughout . The Company\' net sales were positively influenced number factors. \x95 First, net sales from software, service, peripherals, and other sources rose $ million % versus . This increase was driven several factors including % increase combined third-party and Apple-branded software sales; $ million net sales iPod, the Company\' portable digital music player that was introduced the first half ; % increase the sale computer accessories; and % increase service revenue caused primarily increased revenue associated with extended maintenance and support contracts. The growth software revenue was primarily the result increased sales third-party software the Company\' retail and online stores and expansion recent years the number Apple-branded software titles. \x95 Second, overall unit sales Macintosh portable systems grew , units % reflecting general trend the personal computer market away from desktop systems towards portable systems. During , portable Macintosh systems represented % total systems sales versus % and % . Growth this area has been most pronounced for iBook, the Company\' education and consumer oriented portable Macintosh system. iBook unit sales increased % and % . \x95 Third, the Company\' Retail segment grew from stores the end stores the end . The Retail segment\' net sales grew from $ million $ million . While the Retail segment may have cannibalized some net sales from the Company\' preexisting sales channels the ., the Company believed that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales was incremental the Company\' total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT \x95 Fourth, the Company\' average unit pricing increased % during result various changes overall unit mix offset somewhat lower pricing year-over-year comparative Macintosh systems. Net sales per Macintosh unit sold during $ , per unit reflected the shift mix towards relatively higher-priced portable Macintosh systems and reflected the impact net sales the relatively higher-priced new iMac design introduced during . The impact these changes mix were offset the decline unit sales relatively higher-priced Power Macintosh systems and lower pricing comparative Macintosh systems during for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure. \x95 Fifth, any comparison net sales versus must consider the effect unusually low net sales during the first quarter . This was attributable several factors the beginning , including continued deterioration worldwide demand for personal computers, rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during that quarter that cost the Company approximately $ million, and plan implemented the Company during the first quarter that reduced substantially the level inventory its distribution channels that resulted decline channel inventory approximately , units during that quarter. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales were negatively impacted several notable factors. \x95 First, unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . This followed % decline Power Macintosh unit sales from . The Company believed that weak economic conditions over the past several years had pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers and that many these customers continued delay upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac , its new operating system, and anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their Macintosh applications run natively Mac . Further, the Company did not experience the anticipated increase Power Macintosh sales that expected following the introduction Adobe\' PhotoShop during . Additionally, many professional users may have postponed upgrading their systems until after the introduction Mac Jaguar released the fourth quarter . Others may have delayed upgrading until after the availability other professionally oriented software applications for Mac such QuarkXPress. \x95 Second, despite the overall increase net sales during the Americas, the Company continued see weakness its . education channel. Total net sales this channel fell % and % . These declines were consistent with industry data that showed the Company losing market share the . education market each the last two fiscal years. The Company believed this weakness was caused multiple factors, including increased price competition this price sensitive market from the Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appeared delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy their available funding. \x95 Third, the personal computer industry general and the Company specifically experienced soft demand for its products due adverse global economic conditions, political uncertainties, and lengthening consumer, creative, and business personal computer upgrade cycles. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment currently operates ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Apple-owned retail stores the United States and opened its first international store Tokyo, Japan the first quarter . Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Americas Net sales the Americas segment during increased $ million % compared . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. The results the Americas segment are similar the overall results the Company they reflect substantially lower unit sales and net sales Power Macintosh systems and iMac systems, partially offset increases unit sales and net sales PowerBooks. The net sales the Americas segment, and the Company total, also reflect substantially higher sales peripherals, software, and services during compared due primarily higher sales iPods and Internet services. The Americas segment has been negatively affected weakness its . education channel. noted above, total net sales and unit sales the . education channel during were down % and %, respectively, compared the same period . The Company believes this decline caused increased competition the education market and reduction spending . educational institutions due federal and state funding concerns and tax revenue shortfalls resulting from the weak economy. Additionally, some the decline during net sales and unit sales Macintosh systems the Americas segment may the result the operation the Company\' Retail segment whose net sales, all which occurred within the ., increased significantly during . Net sales for the Americas segment increased % $ million compared . The Americas segment was negatively affected decline . education sales $ million. The Americas segment also experienced % decline Power Macintosh unit sales. However, outside the . education channel, unit sales consumer desktop and portable systems rebounded from the substantial declines experienced , rising combined % . Sales software, peripherals, and accessories were also the Americas during . Growth unit sales consumer oriented systems during the Americas somewhat attributable the significantly depressed level net sales experienced the first quarter discussed above. However, growth the Americas was somewhat negatively affected, particularly with respect consumer-oriented systems, the significant growth the Company\' Retail segment the . More than % the Retail segment\' Macintosh unit sales during were for iMacs and iBooks. Europe Net sales Europe increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % during the same period. Europe\' operating results were consistent with the trend experienced the Americas and the Company whole. Europe experienced weakened demand for Power Macintosh, iMac and iBook systems , partially offset strong demand for PowerBooks whose net sales increased % $ million from . Europe also realized increased sales peripherals, software, and service, primarily attributable higher sales iPods, accessories and APP. Economic conditions Europe remained weak throughout , and the overall demand for the Company\' products that region remained flat during versus . Unit sales Europe for reflect relatively stronger demand for consumer-oriented products, particularly iBook whose unit sales increased % , offset declines Power Macintosh unit sales. Japan Net sales Japan decreased $ million % during compared the same period , the weakest year- -date performance any the Company\' operating segments. Japan\' Macintosh unit ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' sales were particularly weak , declining %, and were primarily attributable lower sales iMac and iBook systems, partially offset increase PowerBook sales well higher sales peripherals and other hardware. Japan\' Macintosh unit sales remain significantly below the segment\' historic levels due current economic conditions that remain particularly negative Japan. Net sales Japan remained flat during versus , with slight decline unit sales %. Consistent with the Company\' other geographic operating segments, during Japan showed growth unit sales consumer systems and decline unit sales Power Macintosh systems. Japan\' iMac unit sales increased % . However, the case Japan the increase iMac unit shipments versus was primarily the result the unusually depressed level net sales experienced the Company the first quarter discussed above. Additionally, net sales Japan sequential and year-over-year comparative basis generally worsened progressed reflecting particularly poor economic conditions Japan. Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , bringing the total number open stores September , , which compares open stores September , and open stores September , . During the first quarter fiscal , the Company opened additional stores including its first international store the Ginza Tokyo, Japan. The Retail segment\' net sales grew $ million during from $ million and from $ million . The $ million % increase net sales during reflects the impact from opening new stores , the full year impact store openings, well increase average revenue per store. Total Macintosh sales increased approximately $ million which $ million related year-over-year increases PowerBook sales. The Retail segment has also contributed strongly the increases net sales peripherals, software and services experienced the Company during . During , approximately % the Retail segment\' net sales came from the sale Apple-branded and third-party peripherals, software and services compared % for the Company whole. With average stores open during , the Retail segment achieved annualized revenue per store approximately $ million, compared approximately $ million based average stores open . measured the Company\' operating segment reporting, the Retail segment improved from loss $ million during loss $ million during . This improvement primarily attributable the segment\' year-over-year increase net sales, which resulted higher leverage occupancy, depreciation and other fixed costs. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment since its inception totaled approximately $ million through the end fiscal , $ million which was incurred during . September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Investment new business model such the Retail segment inherently risky, particularly light the significant investment involved, the current economic climate, and the fixed nature substantial portion the Retail segment\' operating expenses. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Gross Margin Gross margin for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gross margin decreased % net sales from % net sales . This decline gross margin reflects relatively aggressive pricing actions several Macintosh models instituted the Company beginning late fiscal result continued pricing pressure throughout the personal computer industry, lower sales relatively higher margin Power Macintosh systems during the first three fiscal quarters , and increased air freight and manufacturing costs associated with the production ramp- the new Power Mac and -inch PowerBook, both which began shipping volume during September . This decline also attributable rise certain component costs the year progressed. The aforementioned negative factors affecting gross margins during were partially offset the increase higher margin software and direct sales. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer industry will remain under pressure throughout fiscal light weak economic conditions, price competition the personal computer industry, and potential increases component pricing. The Company also expects continue incur air freight charges the Power Mac and other products during . The foregoing statements regarding the Company\' expected gross margin during , general demand for personal computers, anticipated industry component pricing, anticipated air freight charges, and future economic conditions are forward-looking. There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained, targeted gross margin levels will achieved, current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\' operating results and financial condition the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin increased % net sales from % . Gross margin was unusually low resulting from negative gross margin % experienced the first quarter . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' percentage net sales, the Company\' quarterly gross margins declined during fiscal from % the first quarter down % the fourth quarter. This decline resulted from several factors including rise component costs the year progressed and aggressive pricing the Company across its products lines instituted result continued pricing pressures the personal computer industry. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ $ \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. The Company has historically relied upon innovation remain competitive. & expense amounted approximately % total net sales during , and , substantially from approximately % total net sales fiscal year and recent earlier periods. The Company\' management believes that maintaining increasing the pace innovation and product development the best way respond current economic and market conditions and will continue position the Company for future growth conditions improve. & expense increased % $ million $ million compared , which follows $ million increase compared . The overall increase & expense relates primarily increased headcount and support for new product development activities. & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million related the development Mac Panther ; approximately $ million associated with the development Mac Jaguar and approximately $ million associated with the PowerSchool enterprise student information system ; and approximately $ million associated with the development the original version Mac . Further information related the Company\' capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) & increased $ million % during compared due primarily the Company\' continued expansion the Retail segment and increases headcount. The overall increase was partially offset decrease current year discretionary spending marketing and advertising and savings resulting from the and restructuring activities described below. & decreased $ million % during compared . The decrease & was primarily the result lower discretionary spending marketing and advertising expenses, decreased spending related information systems, and benefits directly related the Company\' restructuring actions and . The decreases were partially offset higher sales expense resulting from increased operating expenses associated with expansion the Company\' Retail segment. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Restructuring Actions During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million. The primary focus actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool related activities the Americas operating segment. The second quarter actions resulted recognition severance costs $ million for termination employees, whom were terminated prior the end cost $ million. During the second quarter , additional $ , was accrued for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility the Americas operating segment. The Company estimates these restructuring actions will reduce quarterly operating expenses $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the United States and Europe. These restructuring actions will ultimately result the elimination positions worldwide, all but one was eliminated the end . The Company estimates these restructuring actions will reduce quarterly operating expenses $ million. During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. The Company estimates these restructuring actions will result reduced quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. the $ million restructuring charge for fiscal , $ million was incurred the fourth quarter related actions designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. Headcount actions, primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development, resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool product that resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the product the amount $ million. The remaining charge $ million was incurred the first quarter and resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide, cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . Purchased -Process Research and Development (IPR& ) During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ , which was allocated IPR& . The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts, which were completed , included finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc., provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enables schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track their children\' progress. total purchase consideration $ million, $ million was allocated IPR& and was expensed upon acquisition because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the PowerSchool product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed during , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains (losses) non-current investments, net $ $ ( ) $ Unrealized loss convertible securities $ \x97 $ \x97 $ ( ) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments, net \x97 Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Interest and other income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains and Losses Non-current Investments The Company has held investments EarthLink Inc. (EarthLink), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM) and certain investments private companies. These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long term assets within other assets and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. During , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes approximately $ million. Additionally, the Company sold its remaining investment ARM stock, , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ , , and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' gain before taxes $ , , and sold its remaining investment EarthLink stock, , , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. The fair value the Company\' remaining investment Akamai September , , was approximately $ million. During , the Company determined that declines the fair value certain these investments were other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment EarthLink, $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment Akamai, and $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment private company investment. These losses were partially offset the sale , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , the sale , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , and the sale approximately million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million, and sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million. These gains during were partially offset $ million charge earnings that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value the Company\' investment EarthLink and $ million charge that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value certain private company investments. Unrealized Loss Convertible Securities October , , the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . required the Company adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung earnings during the first quarter , the before tax effect which was unrealized loss approximately $ million. Interest and Other Income, Net Net interest and other income decreased $ million % $ million during . The decrease primarily the result declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . The decrease offset the increase $ million from the gain the sales short term investments from the Company\' fixed income portfolio, and the increase $ million from the gain the forward purchase agreement during the fourth quarter . Net interest and other income was $ million fiscal , compared $ million fiscal . This $ million % decrease was primarily the result declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . Provision for Income Taxes The Company\' effective tax rate for was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily research and development credits, non-taxable gain stock repurchase and certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes were provided. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\' consolidated balance sheet. September , , valuation allowance $ million was ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. April , , the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) proposed adjustments the Company\' federal income tax returns for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment represented the mark- -market adjustment fair value for forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock price $ per share. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August . The settlement resulted additional gain approximately $ million, which included interest and other income, net. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. Accounting for Derivatives The adoption SFAS during resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment approximately $ million, net related income tax effect approximately $ million. Further information related the adoption SFAS Nos. , and and the resulting cumulative accounting effects may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company currently measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Accounting for Stock Issued Employees and provides pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, further discussed Part , Item this Form - Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. The FASB decided April , require all companies expense the value employee stock options. Companies will required measure the cost employee stock options according their fair value. The FASB has indicated that plans issue the first quarter calendar year exposure draft new accounting standard addressing this matter. Prior issuance this exposure draft, the FASB has indicated will addressing several significant technical issues. Among other things, the FASB must determine the extent which the new accounting standard will permit adjustments recognized expense for actual option forfeitures and actual performance outcomes. This determination will affect the timing and amount compensation expense recognized. Also, method determine the fair value employee stock options must established. Current accounting standards require use option-pricing model, such the Black-Scholes formula, determine fair value and provide guidance adjusting some the input factors used the model. This valuation approach has received significant criticism and may subject changes that could have significant impact the calculated fair value employee stock options under the new standard. the Company\' annual shareholder\' meeting April , , shareholders approved proposal requesting that the Company\' Board Directors (the Board) establish policy expensing the value all future employee stock options issued the Company. The Board and management appreciate and take seriously the views expressed the Company\' shareholders. discussed the Company\' Form - for the period ended March , , the Company had decided not expense the value employee stock options until the FASB finalizes its new accounting standard the matter. The Company based this decision the FASB\' announced intention soon require all companies expense the value employee stock options and the FASB\' near-term review technical issues that will play significant role determining the fair value and accounting for employee stock options. The Company monitors progress the FASB and other developments with respect the general issue employee stock compensation. the future, should the Company expense the value employee stock options, either out choice due new requirements issued the FASB, the Company may have recognize substantially more compensation expense future periods that could have material adverse impact the Company\' future results operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements January , the FASB issued Interpretation . (FIN ), Consolidation Variable Interest Entities . FIN clarifies the application Accounting Research Bulletin . and applied immediately any variable interest entities created after January , and variable interest entities which interest obtained after that date. For variable interest entities created acquired prior February , , the provisions FIN must applied for the first interim annual period beginning after December , . The adoption the provision FIN related variable interests created after January , did not have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. The Company continues evaluate the provisions FIN , and does not believe that the adoption the remaining provisions will have material impact its results operations financial position. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END May , the FASB\' Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached consensus EITF Issue . - , Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables . EITF Issue . - provides guidance how account for certain arrangements that involve the delivery performance multiple products, services, and rights use assets. The provisions EITF Issue . - apply revenue transactions entered into fiscal periods beginning after June , . Additionally, August , the EITF reached consensus EITF Issue . - , Applicability AICPA Statement Position - , "Software Revenue Recognition," Non-Software Deliverables Arrangement Containing More-than-Incidental Software. EITF Issue . - provides guidance determining whether non-software deliverables are included within the scope SOP - , and accordingly, whether multiple element arrangements are accounted for accordance with EITF Issue . - SOP - . The Company currently applies the requirements SOP . - when accounting for all multiple element transactions. The Company does not anticipate the application either EITF Issue Nos. - - will have significant impact its results operations financial position. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable (DSO) ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Days payables outstanding (DPO) ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) DSO based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Days supply inventory based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. ( ) DPO based ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost sales adjusted for the change inventory. September , , the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments portfolio totaled $ billion, increase $ million from the end fiscal . The Company\' short-term investment portfolio consists primarily investments . Treasury and Agency securities, . corporate securities, and foreign securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' investments are generally liquid and investment grade. result declining investment yields the Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates during , the Company has elected reduce the average maturity its portfolio maintain liquidity for future investment opportunities when market interest rates increase. Accordingly, during the Company increased its holdings short-term investment grade instruments, both . corporate and foreign securities, that are classified cash equivalents and has reduced its holdings longer-term . corporate securities classified short-term investments. Although the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased , the Company\' working capital September , decreased $ million compared the end ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' fiscal due primarily the current year reclassification the Company\' long-term debt current obligation resulting from its scheduled maturity February . The primary sources total cash and cash equivalents fiscal were $ million cash generated operating activities and $ million proceeds from the issuance common stock, partially offset $ million utilized for capital expenditures and $ million for the repurchase common stock. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, debt obligations, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Debt The Company currently has debt outstanding the form $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes that were originally issued . The notes, which pay interest semiannually, were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes, along with approximately $ million unamortized deferred gains closed interest rate swaps, are due February and therefore have been classified current debt September , . The Company currently anticipates utilizing its existing cash balances settle these notes when due. Capital Expenditures The Company\' total capital expenditures were $ million during fiscal , $ million which were for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\' Retail segment and $ million which were primarily for corporate infrastructure, including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\' Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was still authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk credit risk support the Company. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases approximately $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Remaining terms the Company\' existing operating leases range from years. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into additional operating lease commitments for retail space with future lease commitments totaling $ million for periods ranging from years. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\' products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from months. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ million. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other licensing agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the demand for the Company\' products and the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company\' operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions. For much the past several years, demand for the Company\' products has been negatively impacted difficult global economic conditions. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appear delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy their available funding. Continued uncertainty about future economic conditions continues make difficult forecast future operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions fail improve continue deteriorate, demand for the Company\' products could continue adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism public health issues could disrupt supply, delivery demand products which could negatively affect the Company\' operations and performance. War, terrorism public health issues, whether the . abroad, have caused and could continue cause damage disruption international commerce creating economic and political uncertainties ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' that may have strong negative impact the global economy, the Company, and the Company\' suppliers customers. Although impossible predict the occurrences consequences any such events, such events could result decrease demand for the Company\' products, make difficult impossible deliver products its customers, receive components from its suppliers, and could create delays and inefficiencies the Company\' supply chain. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these events. The Company and some its manufacturing vendors and component suppliers have significant operations various locations throughout Asia, including locations mainland China, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and Singapore, all which were subject the World Health Organization and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) travel advisories times during the second and third quarters fiscal . Similar travel advisories were issued for Taiwan, where significant amount the Company\' portable Macintosh systems and the iPod are assembled. Should the severity the SARs threat increase other public health issues arise, the Company could negatively impacted the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations the availability freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between various regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\' manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services highly competitive. the Company unable effectively compete these markets, its results operations could adversely affected. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins order gain maintain market share response the weakness demand that began the second half calendar for personal computing products. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce digital music products that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. The Company has significant number competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\' markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft\' Windows operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms, including Windows. The Company currently focused market opportunities related digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices including iPods. The Company faces increasing competition from other companies promoting their own digital music distribution services, free peer- -peer music services, emerging companies, and larger companies that may have greater resources, including technical and marketing resources, and supplier relationships. There can assurance that the Company will able provide products and services that effectively compete these markets. Failure effectively compete could negatively affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenue, than many its competitors. The Company\' ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technologies the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\' Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\' brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percentage revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions order remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products order remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions the Company\' existing products. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance; the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, including production ramp issues; the availability application software for new products; the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand; the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. During , the Company introduced new client operating system, Mac , and delivered its first major upgrade, Mac version . Other major upgrades include Mac Jaguar and most recently Mac Panther October . Inability the Company provide additional improvements the performance and functionality Mac , advance customer acceptance the new operating system and its upgrades, obtain the continued commitment software developers transition existing applications run Mac , create new applications run Mac , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\' ability obtain sufficient supply components, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, TFT-LCD flat-panel displays, and optical and magnetic disk drives), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using other operating systems. Further, despite its efforts educate the marketplace the contrary, the Company believes that many its current and potential customers believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other operating systems and translates slower overall system performance. There have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\' suppliers provide advanced PowerPC and microprocessors with higher clock speeds sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\' results operations. addition, currently IBM the Company\' sole supplier the processor used current Power Macintosh products and Motorola the sole supplier the processors. The inability the future the Company obtain microprocessors sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could have adverse impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company relies third-party music content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their music content customers through the Company\' iTunes Music Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights offer its customers this third-party music. Many the Company\' licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term nature and not guarantee the future renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Certain parties the music industry have announced their intent consolidate their music distribution operations, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required offer music content customers through the iTunes Music Store. the Company unable continue offer wide variety music content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, expand its geographic reach outside the United States, then sales and gross margins the Company\' iTunes Music Store well related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management solutions and other security mechanisms. the requirements from content providers artists change, then the Company may required further develop license technology address such new rights and requirements. There assurance that the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner, all, which could have materially adverse affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the United States. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, and Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod performed third-party vendors Japan, Taiwan and China. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted regional economic, business, environmental, medical, political, military conditions events, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' products, from time time, experience quality problems that can result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third-parties that may beyond its control. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. Failure could result lost revenue, loss reputation, and significant expense remedy. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company\' retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through November , the Company has opened retail stores including its first international store Tokyo, Japan. The Company\' retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years. The Company could incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\' costs are fixed because depreciation store construction costs and lease expense. result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience decline sales for any reason. Certain the Company\' stores have been designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\' more typical retail stores. The Company has opened four such stores and has one under construction. Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total commitments per location over the lease terms ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\' control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\' future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; lack consumer acceptance the Company\' retail approach; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations outside the United States; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Unit sales the Company\' professionally oriented desktop systems have declined sharply over the past several years negatively impacting net sales and gross margin. Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared and fell % from . Power Macintosh unit sales have fallen percentage total Macintosh unit sales from % % . The Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers who are the primary users such systems. Also, likely that many the Company\' current and potential customers, particularly professional and creative customers who are most likely utilize the Company\' Power Macintosh systems, believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other operating systems and translates slower overall system performance. addition the negative impact net sales, declining sales Power Macintosh systems also have negative effect the Company\' overall gross margin because Power Macintosh systems generally have higher individual gross margins than the Company\' other Macintosh systems. Continued deterioration Power Macintosh unit sales could adversely affect the Company\' future net sales and gross margin. future unit sales Power Macintosh systems fail ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' partially fully recover, will difficult for the Company improve its overall profitability. While the Company has introduced faster Power Macintosh systems utilizing -bit PowerPC processors during , there can assurance that introduction such systems will favorably impact net sales either the short long term. The Company faces increasing competition the . education market. Sales the United States both elementary and secondary schools, well for college and university customers, remain core market for Apple. Net sales these markets fell % the Company\' total net sales from % and % and , respectively. The drop reflects declines both net sales and Macintosh unit sales these markets % and %, respectively, fiscal compared . Additionally, several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers, which could also negatively affect the Company\' market share. effort regain market share and remain competitive, the Company has been and will continue pursue : learning solutions education. These : solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result significantly less profitability even financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase maintain its share the education market execute profitably large strategic arrangements. Failure may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\' products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world. The Company also sells its own products and certain third-party products through its retail stores. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected current economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weaken, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. The Company has invested and will continue invest various programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\' stores with Company employees. These programs could require substantial investment from the Company, while providing assurance return incremental revenue offset this investment. Over the past several years, increasing proportion the Company\' net sales have been made the Company directly end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores the United States. Some the Company\' resellers have perceived this expansion the Company\' direct sales conflicting with their own business and economic interests distributors and resellers the Company\' products. Perception such conflict could discourage the Company\' resellers from investing additional resources the distribution and sale the Company\' products lead them limit cease distribution the Company\' products. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected expansion its direct sales end-users causes some all its resellers cease limit distribution the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company\' business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can increase the cost the Company product components, negatively affecting the Company\' results operations. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions, and interest rate swap and option positions have been utilized the Company hedge exposures fluctuations interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company\' future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed available for the Company\' hardware products, then customers may choose not buy the Company\' products. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\' operating system, timely basis all. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. The Company currently markets and sells variety software applications for use professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the decision third-party software developers develop upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, and high-quality presentations. The Company also markets integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases, and presentations single application. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, for period five years through August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft was required make versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has released Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer for Mac , Microsoft not obligated produce future versions its products subsequent August . While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Company does compete directly with Microsoft number key areas. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. Discontinuance Microsoft Office and other Microsoft products for the Macintosh platform would have adverse effect the Company\' net sales and results operations. June , Microsoft stated that would longer develop new versions Internet Explorer for the Mac . Microsoft\' decision discontinue development Internet Explorer for Mac appears have been influenced part the Company\' introduction during its own web browser, Safari. unclear what impact, any, Microsoft\' decision cease further development Internet Explorer for Mac will have the Company. However, customers chose not purchase the Company\' products because Internet Explorer not available the Macintosh platform should websites fail provide support for web browsers other than Internet Explorer, the Company\' net sales and results operations could materially adversely affected. The Company\' business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\' future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected. Information regarding claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\' profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. result, the overall profitability the Company any given period will depend, part, the product, geographic, and channel mix reflected that period\' net sales. The typical concentration net sales the third month the Company\' fiscal quarters can adversely affect the Company\' business and operating results. The Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics, components suppliers, manufacturing partners, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. The Company\' success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members its executive team, and those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\' employees are located. The Company has relied its ability grant stock options one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Potential accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options may impair the Company\' future ability provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional corporate insurance. Such conditions have resulted higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, and lower coverage limits. For some risks, because cost and availability, the Company does not have insurance coverage. For these reasons, the Company retaining greater portion its insurable risks than has the past relatively greater cost. Business interruptions could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. The Company\' major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, medical conditions, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses. The Company\' operating results and financial ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Failure the Company\' information technology systems and breaches the security data could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\' ability function the normal course business potentially causing delays cancellation customer orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns its implementation sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can assurance that system failure data security breach will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivables. This risk heightened economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\' outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan and California. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operation and financial position. Changes accounting rules could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject interpretation various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who interpret and create appropriate accounting regulations. change from current accounting regulations can have significant effect the Company\' results operations and could impact the manner which the Company conducts business. Unanticipated changes the Company\' tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\' future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected unanticipated changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the Company subject the continuous examination our income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have adverse effect its operating results and financial condition. The Company\' stock price may volatile. The Company\' stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, including lack positive performance the Company\' stock price, well general economic and political conditions and investors\' concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' stock the future. The Company\' acquisition activity could disrupt its ongoing business and may present risks not contemplated the time the transaction. The Company has acquired and may continue acquire companies that have products, services, personnel and technologies that complement the Company\' strategic direction and product roadmap. These acquisitions may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties incorporating the acquired companies\' operations and technologies; distraction management\' attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with acquisition; and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\' due diligence process, including product quality issues and legal contingencies. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and assurance can given that the Company\' previous future acquisitions will successful and will not materially adversely affect business, operating results financial condition. The Company has generally paid cash for its acquisitions. Should the Company issue its common stock other equity related purchase rights consideration acquisition, current shareholders\' percentage ownership and earnings per share may become diluted. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the non-hedge portfolios, the Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap and option positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company adopted SFAS . October , . SFAS . established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' fixed income investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\' investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investment portfolio and debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from and years. September , , $ billion the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments had maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. Due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for the purpose duration management the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company may sell investments prior their stated maturities. result such activity, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\' policy hold investments maturity. The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company entered into interest rate asset swaps during and had open interest rate asset swaps September , . prior years, the Company had entered into interest rate debt swaps with financial institutions. The interest rate debt swaps, which qualified accounting hedges, generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and convert portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. Due prevailing market interest rates, during the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. During the Company closed out all its then existing debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. Both the gains and were deferred, recognized long-term debt and are being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Foreign Currency Risk Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, generally benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing within the time frame our hedged positions due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies its foreign subsidiaries. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\' foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\' foreign ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual gains and losses the future associated with the Company\' investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\' actual exposures and positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Report Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DQ1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Goodwill Acquired intangible assets Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ Accrued expenses Current debt \x97 Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt \x97 Deferred tax liabilities and other non-current liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DS1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Restructuring costs \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) ( ) ( ) Other income and expense: Gains (losses) non-current investments, net ( ) Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 \x97 ( ) Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Income (loss) before accounting changes ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes \x97 Net income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share before accounting changes: Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DU1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Preferred Stock Common Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Deferred Stock Compensation Total Shareholders\' Equity Shares Amount Shares Amount Balances September , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , Components comprehensive loss: Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive loss ( ) Issuance common stock and assumption stock options connection with acquisition \x97 \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Conversion Series preferred stock ( ) ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Write-off deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 Settlement forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DW1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income (loss) ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net taxes ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock based compensation expense Non-cash restructuring \x97 Benefit from deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Gains sales short-term investments, net ( ) ( ) \x97 (Gains) losses sales non-current investments, net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement ( ) \x97 \x97 Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Other liabilities ( ) Cash generated operating activities Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , , Proceeds from sales non-current investments Purchases property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for business acquisitions \x97 ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) investing activities ( ) Financing Activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock ( ) \x97 \x97 Cash generated financing activities Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes, net $ $ $ Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for conversion Series preferred stock $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Issuance common stock connection with acquisition $ \x97 $ \x97 $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DY1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, peripherals and personal computing and communicating solutions. The Company\' products include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the Mac operating system, the iPod digital music player, and portfolio software products and peripherals for education, creative, consumer and business customers. The Company sells its products through its online stores, direct sales force, third-party wholesalers and resellers, and its own retail stores. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Typically, the Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years , and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments The Company has made investments non-current debt and equity investments public and privately held companies that have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long-term assets within other assets. They are not categorized current assets either because, given their nature, they are not readily convertible into cash because they represent potentially longer-term investments the Company. Further, the fair value these investments has been subject high degree volatility. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. However, the Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Occasionally, the Company uses short-term equity derivatives ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' manage potential dispositions non-current debt and equity investments. Any gains losses associated with such derivatives are recognized currently other income and expense. Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities ( assets some circumstances) certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment related forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock average price $ per share for total cost $ million. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August , which resulted additional gain approximately $ million representing the increase fair value the agreement from June , through the settlement date. Derivative Financial Instruments October , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires that all derivatives recognized either assets liabilities fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income approximately $ million. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income approximately $ million, all which was reclassified earnings during . Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are attributable particular risk and that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument reported component other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective achieving offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability identified portion thereof that are attributable particular risk and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' earnings. For derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments, changes fair value are recognized earnings the current period. For foreign currency forward contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction changes expected cash flow the option hedge maturity. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any hedge ineffectiveness recognized current earnings other income and expense. For interest rate swap agreements qualifying fair value hedges, the Company assumes ineffectiveness because these swaps meet the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . . Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. SFAS . requires that the fair value liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. All the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The Company estimated that September , , gross expected future cash flows $ million would required fulfill these obligations. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the date adoption, the Company recorded $ million long-term asset retirement liability and corresponding increase leasehold improvements. This amount represents the present value expected future cash flows associated with returning certain the Company\' leased properties original condition. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow $ million and its present value $ million September , , being accreted over the life the related leases operating expense. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during the first quarter approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. The following table reconciles changes the Company\' asset retirement liability for fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Asset retirement liability recorded September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made material adjustments its long-lived assets, except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . SFAS . requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. The Company completed its transitional goodwill impairment test October , , and its annual goodwill impairment tests August , and August , , respectively, and found impairment. The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\' results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products (hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the United States, and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed and determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from extended warranty and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the warranty and support periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, certain repairs, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the Company\' one-year basic limited parts and labor warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies the gross amount billed. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) the fair value each element. Allocated revenue for each element recognized when revenue recognition criteria have been met for each element. VSOE determined based the price charged when each element sold separately. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. However, limited number the Company\' software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Shipping Costs The Company\' shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Panther"), which enhances the features and functionality the previous version Mac , subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta June , and prior release the final version the product the first quarter . Therefore, during the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with the development Panther. Amortization this asset began the first quarter when Panther was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Jaguar") subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta May , and prior release the final version the product the fourth quarter . such, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with development Jaguar. Amortization this asset began the fourth quarter when Jaguar was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. addition, during , the Company also began capitalizing certain costs related development its new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. Capitalization approximately $ million began upon achievement technological feasibility the first quarter . The final version the enterprise student information system was released July . During the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development the original version Mac , subsequent release public beta version the product and prior release the final product version. result, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs during associated with development Mac . Related amortization ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' computed use the straight-line method accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million and $ , , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Restructuring Charges June , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities . SFAS . supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs Exit Activity (Including Certain Costs Associated with Restructuring) and requires that liability for cost associated with exit disposal activity recognized when the liability incurred, opposed when management commits exit plan. SFAS . also establishes that the liability should initially measured and recorded fair value. This Statement was effective for exit disposal activities initiated after December , . The provisions SFAS . were required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated exit activities. Stock-Based Compensation The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees. The Company applies the disclosure provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. required under SFAS . , the pro forma effects stock-based compensation net income and earnings per common share for employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value freely traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected life options and the Company\' expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those freely traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' management\' opinion, the existing models not provide reliable measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ $ $ ( ) Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income (loss), net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net loss\x97pro forma $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Net income (loss) per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) Net loss per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options and restricted stock reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential shares common stock related stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted loss per common share for fiscal because their effect would have been antidilutive. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share: User-specified TAGGED TABLE For the Years Ended September , September , September , Numerator ( millions): Income (loss) before accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes $ $ \x97 $ Net income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive options and dilutive restricted stock , , \x97 Denominator for diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , Basic earnings (loss) per share before accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 $ Basic earnings (loss) per share after accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share before accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share after accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Options purchase million and million shares common stock were outstanding the end and , respectively, that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share for that year because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for that year and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. September , , the Company had options purchase million shares its common stock outstanding, all which were excluded from the computation diluted loss per share for because the effect would have been antidilutive. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\' cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' short-term investment portfolio consists investments . Treasury and Agency securities, . corporate securities, and foreign securities. The Company\' . corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had net unrealized losses totaling $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year September , and net unrealized gains $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year, September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third- ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. Trade receivables from single customer, Ingram Micro, Inc., accounted for approximately % and % net accounts receivable September , , and September , , respectively. The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balance sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company does not recognize any profits these sales reflect the sale these components its net sales. Inventory Prepayment April , the Company made $ million prepayment Asian supplier for the purchase components over the following nine months. return for this deposit, the supplier agreed supply the Company with specified level components during the three consecutive fiscal quarters ended December , . Approximately $ million this deposit remained unused September , and was reflected the consolidated balance sheets other current assets. During the first six months , the remainder the deposit balance was fully utilized for the purchase components. The deposit was unsecured and had stated interest component. The Company imputed amount cost sales and interest income during each period the deposit was outstanding % interest rate reflect the economics this transaction. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenues and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ $ Purchased options $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 Purchased options $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions and certain probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' accordance with SFAS . , hedges related probable but not firmly committed transactions anticipatory nature are designated and documented hedge inception cash flow hedges and evaluated for hedge effectiveness quarterly. For currency forward contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction changes expected cash flow the option hedge maturity. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any hedge ineffectiveness recognized current earnings other income and expense. protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\' non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\' functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts offset the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. Hedge effectiveness forwards designated net investment hedges measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates, are recognized current earnings other income and expense. discussed above, the Company enters into foreign currency option contracts items that provide offset the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. All changes the fair value these derivative contracts based changes option time value are recorded current earnings other income and expense. Due market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. During , the Company recorded net gains $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. During , the Company recorded net gain $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales. net gains, losses, similar nature were recorded . Interest Rate Risk Management The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. September , , the Company had entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and converted portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps. During fiscal , the Company closed out all its existing debt interest rate swap positions due prevailing market interest rates realizing gain $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. The unrealized loss the asset swaps September , , $ million was deferred and then recognized income part the SFAS . transition adjustment effective October , . The Company closed out all its existing interest rate asset swaps during realizing gain $ million. September , and September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. Due perceived market risk, the Company entered into interest rate swaps early . The interest rate swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps during fiscal until the Company closed out the positions late due prevailing market interest rates. Closing the debt interest rate swaps resulted realized gain ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Debt The Company currently has debt outstanding the form $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes that were originally issued . The notes, which pay interest semiannually, were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes, along with approximately $ million related unamortized deferred gains closed interest rate swaps, are due February and therefore have been classified current debt September , . September , and September , , the carrying amount these notes, including unamortized deferred gains associated with closed debt interest rate swaps, was $ million and $ million, respectively, while the fair value was $ million and $ million, respectively. The fair value the notes based their listed market values September , and September , . Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company has held investments EarthLink, Inc. (EarthLink), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM), and Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung). These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long term assets within other assets and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included total other income and expense. The combined fair value these investments held the Company was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. EarthLink January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment was EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which was convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the United States. Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Mac customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP the Company\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the United States. During the first quarter , the Company sold , , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, amount that approximated the Company\' carrying value the shares. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings EarthLink, consisting , , shares stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales EarthLink were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company held million shares EarthLink stock valued $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' During the second quarter , the Company determined that the decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary requiring that its cost basis written down fair value new cost basis and the amount the write-down included earnings. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold total approximately , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ , , and recognized related income tax approximately $ , . Akamai June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ million. September , , the Company\' remaining investment Akamai consists , shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales Akamai were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the decline the fair value its investment Akamai was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company held million shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. ARM ARM publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings ARM stock, consisting , shares for net proceeds approximately $ , , and gain before taxes $ , . During the first quarter , the Company sold million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. sales ARM were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . September , , the Company held , shares ARM stock valued $ , . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax expense approximately $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Samsung During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment was the form three year unsecured bonds, which were convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning July . The bonds carried annual coupon rate % and paid total yield maturity % redeemed maturity. Prior its sale, the Company had categorized its investment Samsung available-for-sale requiring that carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung was approximately $ million September , . With the adoption SFAS . October , , the Company was required account for the conversion option embedded the Samsung bonds separately from the related debt. The conversion feature was carried fair value with any changes fair value recognized earnings the period which they occur. Included the $ million gross SFAS . transition adjustment recorded earnings during the first quarter fiscal was $ million favorable adjustment for the restatement fair value October , , the derivative component the Company\' investment Samsung. adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung fair value December , , the Company recognized unrealized loss approximately $ million during the first quarter . During the second quarter , the Company sold this investment for book value, including accrued interest, and received net proceeds approximately $ million. Other Strategic Investments The Company has made additional minority debt and equity investments several privately held technology companies, which were reflected the consolidated balance sheets other assets. These investments were inherently risky because the products and markets these companies were typically not fully developed. During and , the Company determined that the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings $ million and $ million, respectively. These charges were included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , and September , , the Company had private debt equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheets. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Inventories User-specified TAGGED TABLE Purchased parts $ $ Work process \x97 Finished goods Total inventories $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Other Current Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Vendor non-trade receivables $ $ Other current assets Total other current assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Property, Plant, and Equipment User-specified TAGGED TABLE Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Other Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Non-current deferred tax assets $ $ Non-current debt and equity investments Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Expenses User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred revenue $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Interest and Other Income, Net User-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments \x97 Other income (expense) net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Acquisitions Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The Company ceased amortization goodwill the beginning fiscal when adopted SFAS . . The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill ( ) $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Accumulated amortization related goodwill $ million arising prior the adoption SFAS . has been reflected the gross carrying amount goodwill September , and September , . Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets amortization \x97 Acquired technology amortization Total amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net loss and net loss per share adjusted exclude amortization goodwill fiscal periods prior the adoption SFAS . fiscal follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net loss, reported $ ( ) Add: goodwill amortization $ Net loss, adjusted $ ( ) Basic loss per share, reported $ ( ) Add: goodwill amortization $ Basic loss per share, adjusted $ ( ) Diluted loss per share, reported $ ( ) Add: goodwill amortization $ Diluted loss per share, adjusted $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition Emagic GmbH During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH (Emagic), provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ million which was paid immediately upon closing the deal and $ million which was held-back for future payment contingent continued employment certain employees that will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. During fiscal , contingent consideration totaling $ million was paid. The acquisition has been accounted for purchase. The portion the purchase price allocated purchased -process research and development (IPR& ) was expensed immediately, and the portion the purchase price allocated acquired technology and tradename will amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Emagic not subject amortization pursuant the provisions SFAS . . Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Acquired technology Tradename -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts, which were completed , included finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Acquisition certain assets Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail During fiscal the Company acquired certain technology and patent rights Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail Corporation for total $ million cash. These transactions have been accounted for asset acquisitions. The purchase price for these asset acquisitions, except for $ million identified contingent consideration which will allocated compensation expense over the next years, has been allocated acquired technology and will amortized straight-line basis over years, except for certain assets acquired from Zayante associated with patent royalty streams that will amortized over years. Acquisition Nothing Real, LLC During the second quarter , the Company acquired certain assets Nothing Real, LLC (Nothing Real), privately-held company that develops and markets high performance tools designed for the digital image creation market. the $ million purchase price, the Company has allocated $ million acquired technology, which will amortized over its estimated life years. The remaining $ million, which has been identified contingent consideration, rather than recorded additional component the cost the acquired assets, will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. Acquisition Spruce Technologies, Inc. July , the Company acquired Spruce Technologies, Inc. (Spruce), privately-held company that develops and markets DVD authoring products, for $ million cash. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Spruce not subject amortization pursuant the transition provisions SFAS . . The consolidated financial statements include the operating results Spruce from the date acquisition. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible liabilities assumed $ ( ) Identifiable intangible assets Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool), provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enable schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' their children\' progress. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results PowerSchool from the date acquisition. The purchase price approximately $ million consisted the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock with fair value $ million, the issuance stock options with fair value $ million, and $ , direct transaction costs. The fair value the common stock options issued was determined using Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: volatility %, expected life years, dividend rate %, and risk-free rate %. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Deferred stock compensation Identifiable intangible assets -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. The acquired intangibles are being amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Deferred stock compensation associated with restricted stock and options being amortized over the required future vesting period years. the fourth quarter , adjustment was made increase goodwill associated with the acquisition PowerSchool $ million due the identification previously unidentified loss contingencies that were existence prior consummation the acquisition. The Company allocated $ million its purchase consideration for PowerSchool deferred stock compensation within shareholders\' equity. This amount represented the intrinsic value stock options assumed that vest future services are provided employees and related , common shares issued contingent continued employment certain PowerSchool employee stockholders. Certain PowerSchool employee stockholders were terminated the first quarter resulting the $ million recognition previously deferred stock compensation part the Company\' first quarter restructuring action. Unamortized PowerSchool related deferred stock compensation approximately $ , remains September , . Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited pro forma financial information below presents the condensed consolidated financial results the Company assuming that PowerSchool and Spruce, acquired , had been acquired the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' beginning and includes the effect amortization goodwill and other acquired identifiable intangible assets from that date. The impact the charge for IPR& associated with the acquisition PowerSchool has been excluded. This pro forma financial information presented for informational purposes only and not necessarily indicative the results future operations that would have been achieved had the acquisitions taken place the beginning . Pro forma information follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , Net loss $ ( ) Basic loss per common share $ ( ) Diluted loss per common share $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Restructuring Charges Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million, nearly all had been spent the end , except for approximately $ , severance costs and approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally estimated and approximately $ , shortfall was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million, including $ million severance costs and $ , for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. Actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool-related activities the Americas operating segment, including accrual for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. The second quarter actions resulted the termination employees, were terminated prior the end . During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the United States and Europe. These restructuring actions will ultimately result the elimination positions worldwide, all but one which were eliminated the end . Closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations resulted severance costs $ million and costs $ million write-off manufacturing related fixed assets, whose use ceased during the first quarter. PowerSchool related costs included severance approximately $ , and recognition $ million previously deferred stock compensation that arose when PowerSchool was acquired the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company related certain PowerSchool employee stockholders who were terminated the first quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities and employees, principally the United States and Europe, resulted severance costs $ million and accrual costs associated with operating leases closed facilities $ million. The total net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the first quarter also reflects the reversal $ , unused restructuring accrual originally made during the first quarter . Except for certain costs associated with operating leases closed facilities, the Company currently anticipates that all the remaining accrual for severance costs approximately $ , will spent the end the first quarter fiscal . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Deferred Compensation Write-off Asset Impairments Lease Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Accrual September , $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, all which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development the Americas operating segment. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. The Company ceased using the assets associated with first quarter restructuring actions during that same quarter. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' $ million. The first quarter restructuring actions were primarily related corporate activity not allocated operating segments. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Asset Impairments Lease and Contract Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Accrual September , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Federal: Current $ $ $ ( ) Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) State: Current \x97 Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits Other Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Available-for-sale securities \x97 Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . portion these carryforwards was acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes, follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Computed expected tax (benefit) $ $ $ ( ) State taxes, net federal effect ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) \x97 \x97 Nondeductible executive compensation ( ) \x97 Stock repurchase ( ) \x97 \x97 Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions Change valuation allowance \x97 ( ) \x97 Research & development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible expenses Other items Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ $ $ ( ) Effective tax rate % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE April , , the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) completed its audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company entered into Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the Agreement) with Steven . Jobs, its Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Agreement cancelled stock option awards for the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock previously granted . Jobs and . . Jobs retained options purchase , shares the Company\' common stock granted August his capacity member the Company\' Board Directors, prior becoming the Company\' CEO. The Agreement replaced the cancelled options with restricted stock award million shares the Company\' common stock. The restricted stock award generally vests three years from date grant. Vesting some all the restricted shares will accelerated the event . Jobs terminated without cause, dies, has his management role reduced following change control the Company. The Company has recorded the value the restricted stock award $ million component shareholders\' equity and amortizing that amount straight-line basis over the -year service vesting period. The value the restricted stock award was based the closing market price the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' common stock the date the award. Total amortization approximately $ million has been included selling, general, and administrative expense and will continue included approximately $ million per quarter through March . The million restricted shares have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Preferred Stock August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. These shares were convertible Microsoft after August , , into shares the Company\' common stock conversion price $ per share. During , , shares preferred stock were converted million shares the Company\' common stock. During , the remaining , preferred shares were converted into million shares the Company\' common stock. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Unrealized gains available-for-sale securities $ $ $ Unrealized gains (losses) derivative investments ( ) ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Adjustment for net (gains) losses realized and included net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million, $ million, $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included net income (loss) was $( ) million, $ million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Changes fair value derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Adjustment for net gains realized and included net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Cumulative effect adopting SFAS . \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative instruments $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the cumulative effect adopting SFAS . was $( ) September , . The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $ million, $( ) million and $( ) million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains (losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income was $( ) million, $ million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Option Plan the Annual Meeting Shareholders held April , , the shareholders approved amendment the Executive Officer Stock Plan change the name the plan the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), provide for broad-based grants all employees addition executive officers and other key employees and prohibit future "repricings" employee stock options, including -months-plus- -day option exchange programs, without shareholder approval. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. result shareholder approval amendments the Executive Officer Stock Plan April , the Company terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan and cancelled all remaining unissued shares, following the completion employee stock option exchange program October . Employee Stock Option Exchange Program March , , the Company announced voluntary employee stock option exchange program (the Exchange Program) whereby eligible employees, other than executive officers and members the Board Directors, had opportunity exchange outstanding options with exercise prices above $ per share for predetermined smaller number new stock options issued with exercise prices equal the fair market value one share the Company\' common stock the day the new awards are issued, which would least six months plus one day after the exchange options are cancelled. April , , accordance with the Exchange Program, the Company accepted and cancelled options purchase , , shares its common stock. October , , new stock options totaling , , shares were issued employees exercise price $ per share, which equivalent the closing price the Company\' stock that date. financial accounting impact the Company\' financial position, results operations cash flow was associated with this transaction. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\' executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook and . Fred . Anderson, have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales Apple stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six-month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. the third quarter , the Company\' shareholders also approved amendment the Employee Stock Purchase Plan increase the number shares authorized for issuance million shares. Beginning with the six-month offering period that started June , , the number shares authorized for issuance limited total million shares per offering period. During , , and , million, million and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Stock Option Activity summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , , September , and September , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Restricted Stock Granted ( , ) \x97 $ Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Total options outstanding September , purchase approximately million shares not include options purchase approximately million shares that were issued October pursuant the Exchange Program described above. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The options outstanding September , have been segregated into six ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ per share. September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ . Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements the effect net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share the fair value method accounting for stock compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the option awards issued October and the awards cancelled part the Exchange Program have been accounted for using modification accounting. accordance with SFAS . , the grant date the awards issued the date acceptance the exchange offer participating employees. The cancellation certain the Company\' Chief Executive Officer\' options and replacement with restricted shares March also being accounted for using modification accounting for purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Expected life stock options - years years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options %- % % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases %- % % % Volatility\x97stock options %- % % % Volatility\x97stock purchases %- % % % Dividend yields Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company prior the third quarter have been based solely the historical volatility the Company\' common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\' stock options. Beginning the third quarter , the Company has modified this approach consider other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\' common stock and the impact unusual fluctuations not reasonably expected recur the historical volatility the Company\' common stock. The Company will continue monitor these and other relevant factors developing the expected volatility assumption used value future awards. Beginning the third quarter , the Company shortened its estimate the expected life new options granted its employees from years years. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock options grants employees. The change the expected life assumption made during the third quarter was the result the expected impact shortening the contractual life new options granted employees from years years and changing the vesting provisions new options granted employees from year straight-line annual vesting year straight-line quarterly vesting. Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\' total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ million, which $ million related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for Apple software and for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future expectations. The following table reconciles changes the Company\' accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other licensing agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, the majority which occurs various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Contingencies Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiff\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions that the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and California. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse affects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial position. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. September , , the Retail segment currently operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note , except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales. The Retail segment\' performance also evaluated based operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress that not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Operating income for all segments except Retail includes cost sales standard cost. Certain manufacturing expenses and related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. assess the operating performance the Retail segment several significant items are included its results for internal management reporting that are not included results the Company\' other segments. First, cost sales for the Retail segment includes mark- above the Company\' standard cost approximate the price normally charged the Company\' major channel partners the United States. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , this resulted the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Second, the Retail segment includes its net sales proceeds from sales the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts and also recognizes related cost sales based the amount which such contracts are normally sold the Company\' resellers operating retail stores the United States. This treatment consistent with how the Company\' major resellers account for the sales and cost the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts. Because the Company has not yet earned the revenue incurred the costs associated with the sale these contracts, offset these amounts recognized the Americas segment\' net sales and cost sales. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets the Americas segment, $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets the Americas segment, $ million and $ million, respectively. These amounts were insignificant fiscal . Third, portion the operating expenses associated with certain high profile retail stores are allocated from the Retail segment corporate marketing expense. Allocation these expenses reflects the unique nature these stores which, given their larger size and extraordinary design elements, function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate sales and marketing events, and brand awareness. Allocated operating costs are those excess operating costs incurred one the Company\' more typical retail locations. Stores were open three such high profile locations New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago September , . Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these three stores were $ million and $ million fiscal and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ $ $ Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Depreciation, amortization and accretion( ) $ $ $ Segment assets( ) $ $ $ Other Segments( ): Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments consists Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. Certain amounts prior fiscal periods related recent acquisitions and Internet services have been reclassified from Other Segments the Americas segment conform the presentation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Segment operating income $ $ $ Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchased -process research and development \x97 ( ) ( ) Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) \x97 Consolidated operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Segment assets $ , $ $ Corporate assets $ , $ , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: United States $ , $ , $ , Japan Other Foreign Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: United States $ $ $ Japan Other Foreign Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: Power Macintosh( ) $ , $ , $ , PowerBook , iMac , , , iBook Total Macintosh Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Peripherals and other hardware( ) , Software( ) Service and other Net Sales Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Power Macintosh figures include server sales. ( ) Net sales peripherals and other hardware include sales iPod, Apple-branded and third-party displays, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which was not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge was for the cost the aircraft. The other half represented all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. the fourth quarter , all significant work and payments associated with the aircraft were completed. the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent the end fiscal and was reversed. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during fiscal . For fiscal , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during and . All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included the Company selling, general, and administrative expenses. connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail, $ million for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. . Johnson repaid $ , this loan fiscal . The remaining $ , due and payable May . . Jerome York, member the Board Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (MicroWarehouse) January . Until September , , also served its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products, including products made the Company. September , , CDW Corporation (CDW), acquired selected North American assets MicroWarehouse. MicroWarehouse subsequently filed for Chapter bankruptcy protection the United States. MicroWarehouse accounted for %, %, and % the Company\' net sales fiscal , and , respectively. Trade receivables from MicroWarehouse were $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company has provided what believes adequate allowance the outstanding receivable based the Company\' secured interest position selected MicroWarehouse assets and the expected payments unsecured creditors. Sales MicroWarehouse and related trade receivables were generally subject the same terms and conditions those with the Company\' other resellers. addition, the Company purchases miscellaneous equipment and supplies from MicroWarehouse. Total purchases amounted approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and , respectively. Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ ( ) $ $ $ Diluted $ ( ) $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share. Net income during the fourth and third quarters included after-tax net gains related non-current investments $ million and $ million, respectively. Net income for the fourth quarter also included settlement the Company\' forward purchase agreement resulting gain $ million and favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment related the adoption SFAS $ million. Net income (loss) ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' during the second and first quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million and $ million, respectively. Net loss for the first quarter included after-tax unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment for the adoption SFAS $ million. Net loss for the fourth quarter included the following items, net tax: the write-down certain equity investments totaling $ million; restructuring charge $ million; -process research and development charge approximately $ million; and the reversal portion previous executive compensation expense resulting favorable impact $ million. Net income for the first quarter included restructuring charge, net tax, $ million. Net income during the first quarter also included gains, net tax, $ million related non-current investments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for asset retirement obligations and for financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity , changed its method accounting for goodwill , and changed its method accounting for hedging activities . User-specified TAGGED TABLE / / KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Mountain View, California October , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EM1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. Item . Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management, the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ( Exchange Act )) were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. There were significant changes the Company\' internal control over financial reporting identified management\' evaluation during the fourth quarter fiscal that have materially affected are reasonably likely materially affect the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' six directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("Intuit") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors Opsware, Inc. Albert Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. and Vice Chairman Metropolitan West Financial LLC since . visiting professor the University California Los Angeles, Fisk University and Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the United States . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the cabinet and the National Security Council, and the leader wide range Administration initiatives including environmental policy, technology, science, communications and government cost reduction. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since March . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. (" NeXT" ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. (" Genentech" ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company which controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\' Board Directors from January August . Previously his career was the automotive industry, with his last position being Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer and member the Board Directors Chrysler Corporation. . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that good governance depends far more than "check the box" approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (" Nominating Committee" ) and Audit and Finance Committee (" Audit Committee "). The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\' executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\' stock option plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, Gore and . Levinson. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\' corporate governance guidelines. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, Gore and . Levinson. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\' independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\' accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Consistent with the Nasdaq audit committee structure and membership requirements, the Audit Committee comprised three members: Messrs. Campbell, York and . Levinson. Because . York\' affiliation with MicroWarehouse, (see Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions), deemed "non-independent" director. permitted under the Nasdaq requirements, the Board carefully considered . York\' affiliation with MicroWarehouse well his accounting and financial expertise and determined that the best interest the Company and its shareholders that continue serve member the Audit Committee. Both . Campbell and . Levinson are independent directors. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert While more than one member the Company\' Audit Committee qualifies "audit committee financial expert" under Item ( ) Regulation - , . William . Campbell, the Committee chairperson, the designated audit committee financial expert. . Campbell considered "independent" the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide" available the Company\' website www apple com investor and filed exhibit this annual report Form - . The Company intends disclose any ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors. " Fred . Anderson , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc., position held from August March . . Anderson also serves director eBay Inc. and piphany, Inc. Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (" Compaq" ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (" ADP" ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the " Named Executive Officers" ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) , , ( ) \x97 , , \x97 ( ) \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs five million restricted shares the Company\' Common Stock which generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for past services the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . Because the aircraft was transferred . Jobs , the amount approximately $ million paid the Company during fiscal year towards the purchase the plane and the related tax assistance approximately $ million was reported income . Jobs. fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , \x97 Fred . Anderson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 , , $ , , $ , , Ronald . Johnson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , $ , Avadis Tevanian, . \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board that substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity-based. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the " Director Plan" ) and , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (" Initial Options" ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (" Annual Options" ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler, Albert Gore, . and . Arthur . Levinson, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. the beginning the fiscal year, . Jerome . York served the Committee until his resignation November which time . Drexler was appointed member the Committee. person who ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. Security Ownership Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Lord, Abbett & . , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , , ( ) * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert Gore, \x97 * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F- filed October , Lord, Abbett & ., Fifth Avenue, New York, . ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Cook has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock which . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (" SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year , except that Messrs. Campbell and York each filed one Form late under the new two-day reporting requirements. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans. User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Total equity compensation plans ( ) , , $ , , ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) October , , the Company granted , , shares under the Employee Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") pursuant the stock option exchange program (see Part , Item this ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , under the heading "Employee Stock Option Exchange Program"). Following that grant, the Company terminated the Plan, its only non-shareholder approved equity plan. All remaining unissued shares that plan were cancelled and new options can granted under that plan. ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with mergers with and acquisitions the companies which originally established those plans. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under those assumed plans. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control," defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control," their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason," those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Johnson repaid the Company $ , during the fiscal year and the amount remaining the loan $ , . . Jerome York, member the Board Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (" MicroWarehouse" ) January . Until September , served its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products, including products made the Company. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. The Company also purchased products from MicroWarehouse for its own internal use. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\' independent auditor, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees User-specified TAGGED TABLE Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees $ , ( ) $ , Tax Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , All Other Fees $ \x97 $ , Total $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\' annual financial statements, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\' Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees include professional services related the audit the Company\' financial statements, consultation accounting standards transactions, and audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\' expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for tax consulting and planning services relating interest computations and international tax changes. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Auditors Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the " Act "), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that annual budget for both audit and non-audit services approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. This policy also mandates that auditor engagements for non-audit services may entered into without the express approval the Audit Committee. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - . ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company filed part this report Form - are set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - . . Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto under Part , Item this Form - . . Exhibits User-specified TAGGED TABLE Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Filed herewith Exhibit Description Form Filing Date Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through March , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\' / % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through April , . - Reimbursement Agreement. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement - Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. Code Ethics the Company Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Independent Auditors\' Consent Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer Section Certification Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - October , , reference and furnish exhibits press release and data sheet issued the public the Company October , . The Company filed current report Form - July , , reference and furnish exhibits press release and data sheet issued the public the Company July , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 18th day December . User-specified TAGGED TABLE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Title Date / / STEVEN . JOBS STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) December , / / FRED . ANDERSON FRED . ANDERSON Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) December , / / PETER OPPENHEIMER PETER OPPENHEIMER Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) December , / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL WILLIAM . CAMPBELL Director December , / / MILLARD . DREXLER MILLARD . DREXLER Director December , / / ALBERT GORE, . ALBERT GORE, . Director December , / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ARTHUR . LEVINSON Director December , / / JEROME . YORK JEROME . YORK Director December , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN SEQ=,FILE=\'QUICKLINK\',USER=ATOBAK,SEQ=,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" " TOCEXISTFLA', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California and Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, and the Asia Pacific region. Leased space the United States includes , square feet retail space. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns its manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, which has approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento and Cork facilities also house ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' customer support call centers. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain legal matters , which did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\' results operations. Antor Media Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiff, Antor Media filed this action September , the United States District Court the Eastern District Texas alleging infringement the Company and other defendants patent , , relating "Method and Apparatus for Transmitting Information Recorded Information Storage Means from Central Server Subscribers via High Data Rate Digital Telecommunications Network." Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Apple Corps Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Apple Computer, Inc. . Apple Corps Ltd. Plaintiff, Apple Corps filed this action July , the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, London alleging that the Company has breached agreement which resolved earlier trademark litigation regarding use the Apple marks. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion October , , challenging jurisdiction the . October , , the Company filed case the United States District Court for the Northern District California requesting declaratory judgment that the Company has not breached the agreement. Articulate Systems, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Articulate filed this action March the United States District Court Massachusetts claiming patent infringement relating voice recognition technology. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The case was stayed for several months pending resolution four summary judgment motions filed the Company, all which were denied the Court. Through series corporate transactions the assets belonging Plaintiff were acquired subsidiary, Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products . (" & "). & filed for bankruptcy November and being liquidated part the bankruptcy. The case has been inactive since approximately May , pending the resolution the & bankruptcy and liquidation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Bancroft . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Bancroft filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles Superior Court behalf potentially nationwide class purchasers certain Power Macintosh computers. Plaintiff alleged violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") arising from allegedly poor performance while running the Company\' Mac operating system, specifically relating hardware acceleration, QuickTime movie hardware acceleration, graphics performance and DVD movie playback. The parties reached settlement and the Court granted preliminary approval September , . The final approval hearing set for January , . Settlement the matter will not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. BIAX Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff BIAX filed this action September , the United States District Court Delaware claiming patent infringement relating dual processor technology. IBM and Motorola were added defendants amended complaint. Plaintiff sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the complaint, denied all allegations and asserted numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The parties settled this case August and the matter concluded. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Dan, . . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiffs filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles Superior Court against the Company and other members the industry behalf nationwide class purchasers certain computer hard drives. The case alleges violations Civil Code Section ("Unfair Competition"), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") and false advertising related the size the drives. Plaintiffs allege that calculation hard drive size using the decimal method misrepresents the actual size the drive. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The case stayed pending resolution whether the case will considered "complex" and potentially new judge assigned. The Company beginning its investigation these allegations. Digital Development Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff, Digital Development Corporation filed this action April , the United States District Court New Jersey, claiming patent infringement two patents, , , and , , , related "System and Method Protecting Integrity Computer Data and Software." Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. The complaint has not yet been served the Company. Dowhal . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this representative action San Francisco County Superior Court February , alleging that the Company and numerous other defendants have participated false advertising and unfair business practices related alleged misrepresentation printer speed. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation California Business and Professions Code § and § . Plaintiff requests injunction, restitution and other unspecified damages and relief. The Company was served February , . Apple filed response March , . The parties are discovery. Dynacore Holdings Corp. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Dynacore filed this action June , United States District Court for the Southern District New York against the Company and thirteen other defendants claiming patent infringement relating IEEE technology, also known FireWire. Plaintiff claims that any computer system other electronic product that uses complies with the IEEE standard violates the patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Defendants are seeking amend the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' pleading assert counterclaim for inequitable conduct against Dynacore. The case was initially stayed pending the Federal Circuit\' decision Datapoint Corp. . Standard Microsystems Corp., related case which plaintiff claimed that its patent was infringed products complying with the fast Ethernet standard. February , the Federal Circuit affirmed the judgment non-infringement Datapoint, and the District Court lifted the stay this action. The defendants this action filed joint motion for summary judgment based upon the decision Datapoint. The Court heard the motion October , and granted summary judgment favor the defendants February , . Dynacore has appealed the ruling. The parties have filed their respective briefs, and the case scheduled for oral argument before the Federal Circuit Court January , . Hawaii Structural Iron Workers and Pension Trust Fund . Apple Computer, Inc. and Steven . Jobs; Young . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Hsu . Apple Computer Inc. Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiff\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. John . Davis Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court December , , alleging that the Company has engaged unfair and deceptive business practices relating its AppleCare Extended Service and Warranty Plan. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation the California Business and Professions Code § and § , breach the Song-Beverly Warranty Act, intentional misrepresentation and concealment. The Company was served December , and continuing its investigation the allegations. Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. Apple filed motion October , disqualify Plaintiff\' counsel, which the Court approved. The case set for trial February , . MacTech . Apple Computer, Inc.; Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Computer International, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Elite Computers and Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; The Neighborhood Computer Store . Apple Computer, Inc. (All Santa Clara County Superior Court). Five resellers have filed similar lawsuits against the Company for various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. Plaintiffs request unspecified damages and other relief. The parties are discovery. October , , one the resellers, Macadam was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order -instate reseller, which the Court denied. hearing its motion for preliminary injunction scheduled for December , . Palmieri . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles Superior Court behalf nationwide class purchasers certain PowerBooks. The case alleges violations Civil Code Section (Unfair Competition) and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") arising from alleged design defect the PowerBooks which purportedly causes marks and dead pixels the LCD ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' screens. Plaintiffs amended their complaint allege additional defect the new " PowerBook, introduced September, , which purportedly causes "white spots" the screen. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company\' response not yet due. The Company beginning its investigation these allegations. TIBCO Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this case August , United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging trademark infringement the Company for using the mark "Rendezvous." Plaintiff\' mark "TIBCO Rendezvous." The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the complaint denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, invalidity and dilution. UNOVA, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff UNOVA filed this patent infringement action against the Company and six other defendants May , the Central District California for infringement eight UNOVA patents related "Smart Battery Management." Plaintiff alleges that the Company\' portable computers manufactured since infringe these eight patents. Plaintiff has filed similar lawsuits against other companies addition the -defendants this case. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability. The case discovery and set for trial March , . ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DG1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 5. ': "Market for the Registrant' Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters The Company' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All share price and per share data and numbers common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ ( ) $ $ Diluted $ $ $ ( ) $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net gains before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. net loss before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million was ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' recognized . , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent and was reversed. , settlement the Company\' forward stock purchase agreement resulted gain $ million. Favorable cumulative-effect type adjustments $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such "anticipates," "expects," "believes," "plans," "predicts," and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\' discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations requires the Company\' management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Item this Form - describe the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\' consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions that believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management believes the following critical accounting policies. That , they are both important the portrayal the Company\' financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products ( ., hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the United States, and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed and determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which could have material adverse impact the Company\' results operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\' assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\' distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\' financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each period that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product lifecycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer industry subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\' products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are recorded. The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\' products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\' products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Valuation Long-Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangibles The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount such asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such assets are considered impaired, the impairment recognized earnings equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds their fair market value. Although the Company has recognized material impairment adjustments related its property, plant, and equipment identifiable intangibles during the past three fiscal years, except those made conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration the Company\' business geographic region business segment the future, including deterioration the performance individual retail stores, could lead such impairment adjustments the future periods which such business issues are identified. The Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . result, the Company longer amortizes goodwill but instead performs review goodwill for impairment annually, earlier indicators potential impairment exist. The review goodwill for potential impairment highly subjective and requires that: ( ) goodwill allocated various reporting units the Company\' business which relates; ( ) the Company estimate the fair value those reporting units which the goodwill relates; and ( ) the Company determine the book value those reporting units. the estimated fair value reporting units with allocated goodwill determined less than their book value, the Company required estimate the fair value all identifiable assets and liabilities those reporting units manner similar purchase price allocation for acquired business. This requires independent valuation certain internally developed and unrecognized assets including -process research and development and developed technology. Once this process complete, the amount goodwill impairment, any, can determined. Based the Company\' estimates September , , there was impairment goodwill. However, changes various circumstances including changes the Company\' market capitalization, changes the Company\' forecasts, and changes the Company\' internal business structure could cause one more the Company\' reporting units valued differently thereby causing impairment goodwill. Additionally, response changes the personal computer industry and changes global regional economic conditions, the Company may strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing, otherwise exiting businesses, which could result impairment property, plant, and equipment, identifiable intangibles, goodwill. Warranty Costs The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical experience failure rates. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\' results operations. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. Similarly, the Company subsequently realizes deferred tax assets that were previously determined unrealizable, the respective valuation allowance would reversed, resulting positive adjustment earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\' expectations could have material impact the Company\' results operations and financial position. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales ( )% % Retail net sales % \x97 Other segments net sales ( ) % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , Europe Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Japan Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales % \x97 Other segments Macintosh unit sales ( ) % % Total Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , % , Net Sales Product: Power Macintosh net sales ( ) $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , PowerBook net sales , % % iMac net sales , ( )% , % , iBook net sales ( )% % Total Macintosh net sales , ( )% , % , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , % % Software ( ) % % Service and other sales % ( )% Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Power Macintosh unit sales ( ) ( )% ( )% PowerBook unit sales % % iMac unit sales , ( )% , % , iBook unit sales ( )% % Total Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , % , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , % $ , % $ , iPod unit sales % \x97 \x97 iPod net sales $ % $ \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Notes: ( ) Other segments consists Asia Pacific and FileMaker. Certain net sales and related recent acquisitions and Internet services have been reclassified from Other segments net sales Americas segment net sales conform the presentation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Power Macintosh figures include server sales. ( ) Net sales peripherals and other hardware include sales iPod, Apple-branded and third-party displays, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. ( ) Net sales per Macintosh unit sold derived dividing total Macintosh net sales total Macintosh unit sales. Fiscal Year versus Net sales increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % year-over-year approximately million units . Several factors have contributed favorably net sales during including: \x95 The Retail segment\' net sales grew $ million during from $ million , increase %. While the Company\' customers may elect purchase product from their local Apple Retail store rather than through other preexisting sales channels the United States, the Company believes that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales incremental total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." \x95 Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose $ million % during compared , which follows $ million % increase compared . The current year increase was primarily driven the $ million, %, year-over-year increase iPod net sales $ million. All the Company\' operating segments experienced substantial increases iPod net sales and unit sales during . iPod sales during were favorably affected the introduction substantially redesigned new models, which are compatible with both Macintosh and Windows operating systems and the Company\' introduction its iTunes Music Store for the Macintosh operating system April . The Company\' iPod digital music player sold variety resellers, many which not currently market the Company\' Macintosh systems. The Company has expanded this distribution network during , which has contributed the current year increase iPod unit sales %. addition the iPod, the increase net sales peripherals and other hardware during also reflects overall increase net sales other computer accessories including AirPort cards and base stations, which facilitate wireless connectivity; third party digital cameras and printers; and number portable computer related accessories. \x95 Although total Macintosh unit sales were down % , unit sales the Company\' portable systems were relatively strong primarily due the % , unit increase PowerBook unit sales, slightly offset % , unit decrease iBook unit sales. The increase PowerBook net sales $ million % due primarily the success the Company\' new -inch, -inch and -inch models that were introduced during . The decline iBook consumer portable sales during primarily due lower average price per unit. Portable systems represented % all Macintosh systems sold versus % and % , which reflects overall industry trend towards portable systems. \x95 The Company\' average net sales per Macintosh unit sold increased % $ , result various changes overall unit mix towards relatively higher-priced PowerBook systems and increase direct sales primarily from the Company\' retail and online stores, offset somewhat lower year-over-year pricing comparable Macintosh systems for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure, particularly with the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' iBook consumer portable systems. PowerBook and Power Macintosh systems accounted for % total unit sales versus % . \x95 Net sales software increased $ million % during compared the prior year and reflects higher net sales Apple-branded application and server software and third-party software. Net sales Apple-branded application and server software increased due the introduction several new software titles during the year including Final Cut Express, iLife, and Keynote, well from higher sales software related recent acquisitions including PowerSchool and Emagic. Growth net sales third-party software during was particularly strong the Americas Segment due strong sales software the Company\' online store and its Retail segment. \x95 Service and other sales rose $ million % during and results from significant year-over-year increases net sales associated with AppleCare Protection Plan (APP) extended maintenance and support services, well the Company\' Internet related services. Increased net sales associated with APP are primarily the result increasing attach rates over the last several years. Increased net sales associated with Internet services are due net sales from the iTunes Music Store introduced April and increased net sales the Company\' Mac Internet service. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales during were negatively impacted the following factors: \x95 Total unit sales desktop systems fell % during compared . iMac systems unit sales declined % from resulting from shift sales away from desktop systems favor portables. Also, the current flat panel iMac form factor was the eighth quarter its life cycle the end and did not experience significant enhancements until the release the -inch flat-panel iMac November . \x95 Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . For the first nine months compared the same period , unit sales Power Macintosh systems decreased %, which representative the decline Power Macintosh systems sales experienced the Company during recent years and also believed attributable delays purchasing pending the release the Power Mac . expected, this trend reversed the fourth quarter with unit sales increasing % during the quarter compared the same period the prior year due largely the new Power Mac , which the Company introduced June and began shipping the end fiscal . The decline Power Macintosh sales over the last several years also reflects the shift sales portable systems, particularly PowerBooks. addition, the Company continues believe that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers. Additionally, some the Company\' professional and creative customers may have delayed upgrades their systems anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their professionally oriented Macintosh software applications run natively Mac . Currently there are many applications that run natively Mac , including Adobe\' PhotoShop and QuarkXPress ; however, there assurance that this will result additional sales Macintosh systems, particularly Power Macintosh units. \x95 The Company has continued experience ongoing weakness its . education channel during . Net sales and unit sales . education during were down % and %, respectively, compared . This decline was due decrease - sales, partially offset increase higher education sales. Net sales declined primarily result continued shift mix away from higher priced Power Macintosh and iMac systems towards lower priced eMac and iBook systems, although the Company did experience significant increase sales its PowerBook systems primarily higher education customers. Portable systems accounted for approximately % total unit sales the education channel during , compared approximately % . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company\' one- -one ( : ) learning solutions are complete solution consisting iBook portable system for every student and teacher along with wireless network connected central server. The Company has experienced significant competition : learning solutions and, accordingly, has experienced lower sales price per unit, average, these transactions. The Company believes weakness its . education channel, particularly - , has been caused multiple factors including funding pressures due weak economic conditions, large budget deficits many states, and increased competition particularly for desktop computers. Although the Company has taken steps, and will continue take steps, address weakness the . education channel, remains difficult anticipate when and this negative trend will reverse. \x95 The personal computer industry general, and the Company specifically, continue see relatively soft demand for their products. Sales professional and consumer oriented Macintosh systems remain far below levels experienced fiscal and earlier. Difficult global economic conditions during the past several years exacerbated the economic and political uncertainties caused terrorist activities and the associated international responses have clearly had pronounced negative effect the overall demand for the Company\' products virtually all its markets. Further, growth the overall personal computer industry has slowed due the high market penetration personal computers and lengthening consumer, creative, and business personal computer upgrade cycles. Fiscal Year versus Net sales increased $ million % during compared , while Macintosh unit sales were relatively flat year-over-year approximately million units. geographic basis, performance the domestic market was relatively strong, especially when considering the performance the Company\' Retail segment, which operated during exclusively the United States. However, the European and Japanese markets remained sluggish throughout . The Company\' net sales were positively influenced number factors. \x95 First, net sales from software, service, peripherals, and other sources rose $ million % versus . This increase was driven several factors including % increase combined third-party and Apple-branded software sales; $ million net sales iPod, the Company\' portable digital music player that was introduced the first half ; % increase the sale computer accessories; and % increase service revenue caused primarily increased revenue associated with extended maintenance and support contracts. The growth software revenue was primarily the result increased sales third-party software the Company\' retail and online stores and expansion recent years the number Apple-branded software titles. \x95 Second, overall unit sales Macintosh portable systems grew , units % reflecting general trend the personal computer market away from desktop systems towards portable systems. During , portable Macintosh systems represented % total systems sales versus % and % . Growth this area has been most pronounced for iBook, the Company\' education and consumer oriented portable Macintosh system. iBook unit sales increased % and % . \x95 Third, the Company\' Retail segment grew from stores the end stores the end . The Retail segment\' net sales grew from $ million $ million . While the Retail segment may have cannibalized some net sales from the Company\' preexisting sales channels the ., the Company believed that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales was incremental the Company\' total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT \x95 Fourth, the Company\' average unit pricing increased % during result various changes overall unit mix offset somewhat lower pricing year-over-year comparative Macintosh systems. Net sales per Macintosh unit sold during $ , per unit reflected the shift mix towards relatively higher-priced portable Macintosh systems and reflected the impact net sales the relatively higher-priced new iMac design introduced during . The impact these changes mix were offset the decline unit sales relatively higher-priced Power Macintosh systems and lower pricing comparative Macintosh systems during for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure. \x95 Fifth, any comparison net sales versus must consider the effect unusually low net sales during the first quarter . This was attributable several factors the beginning , including continued deterioration worldwide demand for personal computers, rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during that quarter that cost the Company approximately $ million, and plan implemented the Company during the first quarter that reduced substantially the level inventory its distribution channels that resulted decline channel inventory approximately , units during that quarter. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales were negatively impacted several notable factors. \x95 First, unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . This followed % decline Power Macintosh unit sales from . The Company believed that weak economic conditions over the past several years had pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers and that many these customers continued delay upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac , its new operating system, and anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their Macintosh applications run natively Mac . Further, the Company did not experience the anticipated increase Power Macintosh sales that expected following the introduction Adobe\' PhotoShop during . Additionally, many professional users may have postponed upgrading their systems until after the introduction Mac Jaguar released the fourth quarter . Others may have delayed upgrading until after the availability other professionally oriented software applications for Mac such QuarkXPress. \x95 Second, despite the overall increase net sales during the Americas, the Company continued see weakness its . education channel. Total net sales this channel fell % and % . These declines were consistent with industry data that showed the Company losing market share the . education market each the last two fiscal years. The Company believed this weakness was caused multiple factors, including increased price competition this price sensitive market from the Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appeared delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy their available funding. \x95 Third, the personal computer industry general and the Company specifically experienced soft demand for its products due adverse global economic conditions, political uncertainties, and lengthening consumer, creative, and business personal computer upgrade cycles. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Retail segment currently operates ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Apple-owned retail stores the United States and opened its first international store Tokyo, Japan the first quarter . Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Americas Net sales the Americas segment during increased $ million % compared . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. The results the Americas segment are similar the overall results the Company they reflect substantially lower unit sales and net sales Power Macintosh systems and iMac systems, partially offset increases unit sales and net sales PowerBooks. The net sales the Americas segment, and the Company total, also reflect substantially higher sales peripherals, software, and services during compared due primarily higher sales iPods and Internet services. The Americas segment has been negatively affected weakness its . education channel. noted above, total net sales and unit sales the . education channel during were down % and %, respectively, compared the same period . The Company believes this decline caused increased competition the education market and reduction spending . educational institutions due federal and state funding concerns and tax revenue shortfalls resulting from the weak economy. Additionally, some the decline during net sales and unit sales Macintosh systems the Americas segment may the result the operation the Company\' Retail segment whose net sales, all which occurred within the ., increased significantly during . Net sales for the Americas segment increased % $ million compared . The Americas segment was negatively affected decline . education sales $ million. The Americas segment also experienced % decline Power Macintosh unit sales. However, outside the . education channel, unit sales consumer desktop and portable systems rebounded from the substantial declines experienced , rising combined % . Sales software, peripherals, and accessories were also the Americas during . Growth unit sales consumer oriented systems during the Americas somewhat attributable the significantly depressed level net sales experienced the first quarter discussed above. However, growth the Americas was somewhat negatively affected, particularly with respect consumer-oriented systems, the significant growth the Company\' Retail segment the . More than % the Retail segment\' Macintosh unit sales during were for iMacs and iBooks. Europe Net sales Europe increased $ million % during compared while Macintosh unit sales declined % during the same period. Europe\' operating results were consistent with the trend experienced the Americas and the Company whole. Europe experienced weakened demand for Power Macintosh, iMac and iBook systems , partially offset strong demand for PowerBooks whose net sales increased % $ million from . Europe also realized increased sales peripherals, software, and service, primarily attributable higher sales iPods, accessories and APP. Economic conditions Europe remained weak throughout , and the overall demand for the Company\' products that region remained flat during versus . Unit sales Europe for reflect relatively stronger demand for consumer-oriented products, particularly iBook whose unit sales increased % , offset declines Power Macintosh unit sales. Japan Net sales Japan decreased $ million % during compared the same period , the weakest year- -date performance any the Company\' operating segments. Japan\' Macintosh unit ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' sales were particularly weak , declining %, and were primarily attributable lower sales iMac and iBook systems, partially offset increase PowerBook sales well higher sales peripherals and other hardware. Japan\' Macintosh unit sales remain significantly below the segment\' historic levels due current economic conditions that remain particularly negative Japan. Net sales Japan remained flat during versus , with slight decline unit sales %. Consistent with the Company\' other geographic operating segments, during Japan showed growth unit sales consumer systems and decline unit sales Power Macintosh systems. Japan\' iMac unit sales increased % . However, the case Japan the increase iMac unit shipments versus was primarily the result the unusually depressed level net sales experienced the Company the first quarter discussed above. Additionally, net sales Japan sequential and year-over-year comparative basis generally worsened progressed reflecting particularly poor economic conditions Japan. Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , bringing the total number open stores September , , which compares open stores September , and open stores September , . During the first quarter fiscal , the Company opened additional stores including its first international store the Ginza Tokyo, Japan. The Retail segment\' net sales grew $ million during from $ million and from $ million . The $ million % increase net sales during reflects the impact from opening new stores , the full year impact store openings, well increase average revenue per store. Total Macintosh sales increased approximately $ million which $ million related year-over-year increases PowerBook sales. The Retail segment has also contributed strongly the increases net sales peripherals, software and services experienced the Company during . During , approximately % the Retail segment\' net sales came from the sale Apple-branded and third-party peripherals, software and services compared % for the Company whole. With average stores open during , the Retail segment achieved annualized revenue per store approximately $ million, compared approximately $ million based average stores open . measured the Company\' operating segment reporting, the Retail segment improved from loss $ million during loss $ million during . This improvement primarily attributable the segment\' year-over-year increase net sales, which resulted higher leverage occupancy, depreciation and other fixed costs. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment since its inception totaled approximately $ million through the end fiscal , $ million which was incurred during . September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Investment new business model such the Retail segment inherently risky, particularly light the significant investment involved, the current economic climate, and the fixed nature substantial portion the Retail segment\' operating expenses. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Gross Margin Gross margin for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gross margin decreased % net sales from % net sales . This decline gross margin reflects relatively aggressive pricing actions several Macintosh models instituted the Company beginning late fiscal result continued pricing pressure throughout the personal computer industry, lower sales relatively higher margin Power Macintosh systems during the first three fiscal quarters , and increased air freight and manufacturing costs associated with the production ramp- the new Power Mac and -inch PowerBook, both which began shipping volume during September . This decline also attributable rise certain component costs the year progressed. The aforementioned negative factors affecting gross margins during were partially offset the increase higher margin software and direct sales. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer industry will remain under pressure throughout fiscal light weak economic conditions, price competition the personal computer industry, and potential increases component pricing. The Company also expects continue incur air freight charges the Power Mac and other products during . The foregoing statements regarding the Company\' expected gross margin during , general demand for personal computers, anticipated industry component pricing, anticipated air freight charges, and future economic conditions are forward-looking. There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained, targeted gross margin levels will achieved, current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\' operating results and financial condition the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin increased % net sales from % . Gross margin was unusually low resulting from negative gross margin % experienced the first quarter . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' percentage net sales, the Company\' quarterly gross margins declined during fiscal from % the first quarter down % the fourth quarter. This decline resulted from several factors including rise component costs the year progressed and aggressive pricing the Company across its products lines instituted result continued pricing pressures the personal computer industry. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ $ \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. The Company has historically relied upon innovation remain competitive. & expense amounted approximately % total net sales during , and , substantially from approximately % total net sales fiscal year and recent earlier periods. The Company\' management believes that maintaining increasing the pace innovation and product development the best way respond current economic and market conditions and will continue position the Company for future growth conditions improve. & expense increased % $ million $ million compared , which follows $ million increase compared . The overall increase & expense relates primarily increased headcount and support for new product development activities. & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million related the development Mac Panther ; approximately $ million associated with the development Mac Jaguar and approximately $ million associated with the PowerSchool enterprise student information system ; and approximately $ million associated with the development the original version Mac . Further information related the Company\' capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) & increased $ million % during compared due primarily the Company\' continued expansion the Retail segment and increases headcount. The overall increase was partially offset decrease current year discretionary spending marketing and advertising and savings resulting from the and restructuring activities described below. & decreased $ million % during compared . The decrease & was primarily the result lower discretionary spending marketing and advertising expenses, decreased spending related information systems, and benefits directly related the Company\' restructuring actions and . The decreases were partially offset higher sales expense resulting from increased operating expenses associated with expansion the Company\' Retail segment. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Restructuring Actions During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million. The primary focus actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool related activities the Americas operating segment. The second quarter actions resulted recognition severance costs $ million for termination employees, whom were terminated prior the end cost $ million. During the second quarter , additional $ , was accrued for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility the Americas operating segment. The Company estimates these restructuring actions will reduce quarterly operating expenses $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the United States and Europe. These restructuring actions will ultimately result the elimination positions worldwide, all but one was eliminated the end . The Company estimates these restructuring actions will reduce quarterly operating expenses $ million. During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. The Company estimates these restructuring actions will result reduced quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. the $ million restructuring charge for fiscal , $ million was incurred the fourth quarter related actions designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. Headcount actions, primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development, resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool product that resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the product the amount $ million. The remaining charge $ million was incurred the first quarter and resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide, cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . Purchased -Process Research and Development (IPR& ) During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ , which was allocated IPR& . The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts, which were completed , included finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc., provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enables schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track their children\' progress. total purchase consideration $ million, $ million was allocated IPR& and was expensed upon acquisition because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the PowerSchool product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed during , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains (losses) non-current investments, net $ $ ( ) $ Unrealized loss convertible securities $ \x97 $ \x97 $ ( ) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments, net \x97 Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Interest and other income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains and Losses Non-current Investments The Company has held investments EarthLink Inc. (EarthLink), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM) and certain investments private companies. These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long term assets within other assets and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. During , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes approximately $ million. Additionally, the Company sold its remaining investment ARM stock, , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ , , and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' gain before taxes $ , , and sold its remaining investment EarthLink stock, , , shares, for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. The fair value the Company\' remaining investment Akamai September , , was approximately $ million. During , the Company determined that declines the fair value certain these investments were other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment EarthLink, $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment Akamai, and $ million charge earnings writedown the basis its investment private company investment. These losses were partially offset the sale , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , the sale , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , and the sale approximately million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million, and sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million. These gains during were partially offset $ million charge earnings that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value the Company\' investment EarthLink and $ million charge that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value certain private company investments. Unrealized Loss Convertible Securities October , , the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . required the Company adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung earnings during the first quarter , the before tax effect which was unrealized loss approximately $ million. Interest and Other Income, Net Net interest and other income decreased $ million % $ million during . The decrease primarily the result declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . The decrease offset the increase $ million from the gain the sales short term investments from the Company\' fixed income portfolio, and the increase $ million from the gain the forward purchase agreement during the fourth quarter . Net interest and other income was $ million fiscal , compared $ million fiscal . This $ million % decrease was primarily the result declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . Provision for Income Taxes The Company\' effective tax rate for was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily research and development credits, non-taxable gain stock repurchase and certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes were provided. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\' consolidated balance sheet. September , , valuation allowance $ million was ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. April , , the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) proposed adjustments the Company\' federal income tax returns for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Cumulative Effects Accounting Changes Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment represented the mark- -market adjustment fair value for forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock price $ per share. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August . The settlement resulted additional gain approximately $ million, which included interest and other income, net. Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. Accounting for Derivatives The adoption SFAS during resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment approximately $ million, net related income tax effect approximately $ million. Further information related the adoption SFAS Nos. , and and the resulting cumulative accounting effects may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation The Company currently measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Accounting for Stock Issued Employees and provides pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, further discussed Part , Item this Form - Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. The FASB decided April , require all companies expense the value employee stock options. Companies will required measure the cost employee stock options according their fair value. The FASB has indicated that plans issue the first quarter calendar year exposure draft new accounting standard addressing this matter. Prior issuance this exposure draft, the FASB has indicated will addressing several significant technical issues. Among other things, the FASB must determine the extent which the new accounting standard will permit adjustments recognized expense for actual option forfeitures and actual performance outcomes. This determination will affect the timing and amount compensation expense recognized. Also, method determine the fair value employee stock options must established. Current accounting standards require use option-pricing model, such the Black-Scholes formula, determine fair value and provide guidance adjusting some the input factors used the model. This valuation approach has received significant criticism and may subject changes that could have significant impact the calculated fair value employee stock options under the new standard. the Company\' annual shareholder\' meeting April , , shareholders approved proposal requesting that the Company\' Board Directors (the Board) establish policy expensing the value all future employee stock options issued the Company. The Board and management appreciate and take seriously the views expressed the Company\' shareholders. discussed the Company\' Form - for the period ended March , , the Company had decided not expense the value employee stock options until the FASB finalizes its new accounting standard the matter. The Company based this decision the FASB\' announced intention soon require all companies expense the value employee stock options and the FASB\' near-term review technical issues that will play significant role determining the fair value and accounting for employee stock options. The Company monitors progress the FASB and other developments with respect the general issue employee stock compensation. the future, should the Company expense the value employee stock options, either out choice due new requirements issued the FASB, the Company may have recognize substantially more compensation expense future periods that could have material adverse impact the Company\' future results operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements January , the FASB issued Interpretation . (FIN ), Consolidation Variable Interest Entities . FIN clarifies the application Accounting Research Bulletin . and applied immediately any variable interest entities created after January , and variable interest entities which interest obtained after that date. For variable interest entities created acquired prior February , , the provisions FIN must applied for the first interim annual period beginning after December , . The adoption the provision FIN related variable interests created after January , did not have material impact the Company\' results operations financial position. The Company continues evaluate the provisions FIN , and does not believe that the adoption the remaining provisions will have material impact its results operations financial position. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DK1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END May , the FASB\' Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached consensus EITF Issue . - , Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables . EITF Issue . - provides guidance how account for certain arrangements that involve the delivery performance multiple products, services, and rights use assets. The provisions EITF Issue . - apply revenue transactions entered into fiscal periods beginning after June , . Additionally, August , the EITF reached consensus EITF Issue . - , Applicability AICPA Statement Position - , "Software Revenue Recognition," Non-Software Deliverables Arrangement Containing More-than-Incidental Software. EITF Issue . - provides guidance determining whether non-software deliverables are included within the scope SOP - , and accordingly, whether multiple element arrangements are accounted for accordance with EITF Issue . - SOP - . The Company currently applies the requirements SOP . - when accounting for all multiple element transactions. The Company does not anticipate the application either EITF Issue Nos. - - will have significant impact its results operations financial position. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable (DSO) ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Days payables outstanding (DPO) ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) DSO based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Days supply inventory based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. ( ) DPO based ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost sales adjusted for the change inventory. September , , the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments portfolio totaled $ billion, increase $ million from the end fiscal . The Company\' short-term investment portfolio consists primarily investments . Treasury and Agency securities, . corporate securities, and foreign securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' investments are generally liquid and investment grade. result declining investment yields the Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates during , the Company has elected reduce the average maturity its portfolio maintain liquidity for future investment opportunities when market interest rates increase. Accordingly, during the Company increased its holdings short-term investment grade instruments, both . corporate and foreign securities, that are classified cash equivalents and has reduced its holdings longer-term . corporate securities classified short-term investments. Although the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased , the Company\' working capital September , decreased $ million compared the end ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' fiscal due primarily the current year reclassification the Company\' long-term debt current obligation resulting from its scheduled maturity February . The primary sources total cash and cash equivalents fiscal were $ million cash generated operating activities and $ million proceeds from the issuance common stock, partially offset $ million utilized for capital expenditures and $ million for the repurchase common stock. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, debt obligations, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Debt The Company currently has debt outstanding the form $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes that were originally issued . The notes, which pay interest semiannually, were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes, along with approximately $ million unamortized deferred gains closed interest rate swaps, are due February and therefore have been classified current debt September , . The Company currently anticipates utilizing its existing cash balances settle these notes when due. Capital Expenditures The Company\' total capital expenditures were $ million during fiscal , $ million which were for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\' Retail segment and $ million which were primarily for corporate infrastructure, including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\' Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was still authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk credit risk support the Company. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases approximately $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Remaining terms the Company\' existing operating leases range from years. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into additional operating lease commitments for retail space with future lease commitments totaling $ million for periods ranging from years. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\' products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from months. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ million. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other licensing agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the demand for the Company\' products and the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company\' operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions. For much the past several years, demand for the Company\' products has been negatively impacted difficult global economic conditions. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appear delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy their available funding. Continued uncertainty about future economic conditions continues make difficult forecast future operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions fail improve continue deteriorate, demand for the Company\' products could continue adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism public health issues could disrupt supply, delivery demand products which could negatively affect the Company\' operations and performance. War, terrorism public health issues, whether the . abroad, have caused and could continue cause damage disruption international commerce creating economic and political uncertainties ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' that may have strong negative impact the global economy, the Company, and the Company\' suppliers customers. Although impossible predict the occurrences consequences any such events, such events could result decrease demand for the Company\' products, make difficult impossible deliver products its customers, receive components from its suppliers, and could create delays and inefficiencies the Company\' supply chain. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these events. The Company and some its manufacturing vendors and component suppliers have significant operations various locations throughout Asia, including locations mainland China, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and Singapore, all which were subject the World Health Organization and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) travel advisories times during the second and third quarters fiscal . Similar travel advisories were issued for Taiwan, where significant amount the Company\' portable Macintosh systems and the iPod are assembled. Should the severity the SARs threat increase other public health issues arise, the Company could negatively impacted the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations the availability freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between various regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\' manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services highly competitive. the Company unable effectively compete these markets, its results operations could adversely affected. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins order gain maintain market share response the weakness demand that began the second half calendar for personal computing products. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce digital music products that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. The Company has significant number competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\' markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft\' Windows operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms, including Windows. The Company currently focused market opportunities related digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices including iPods. The Company faces increasing competition from other companies promoting their own digital music distribution services, free peer- -peer music services, emerging companies, and larger companies that may have greater resources, including technical and marketing resources, and supplier relationships. There can assurance that the Company will able provide products and services that effectively compete these markets. Failure effectively compete could negatively affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenue, than many its competitors. The Company\' ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technologies the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\' Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\' brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percentage revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions order remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products order remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions the Company\' existing products. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance; the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, including production ramp issues; the availability application software for new products; the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand; the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. During , the Company introduced new client operating system, Mac , and delivered its first major upgrade, Mac version . Other major upgrades include Mac Jaguar and most recently Mac Panther October . Inability the Company provide additional improvements the performance and functionality Mac , advance customer acceptance the new operating system and its upgrades, obtain the continued commitment software developers transition existing applications run Mac , create new applications run Mac , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\' ability obtain sufficient supply components, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, TFT-LCD flat-panel displays, and optical and magnetic disk drives), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using other operating systems. Further, despite its efforts educate the marketplace the contrary, the Company believes that many its current and potential customers believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other operating systems and translates slower overall system performance. There have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\' suppliers provide advanced PowerPC and microprocessors with higher clock speeds sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\' results operations. addition, currently IBM the Company\' sole supplier the processor used current Power Macintosh products and Motorola the sole supplier the processors. The inability the future the Company obtain microprocessors sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could have adverse impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company relies third-party music content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their music content customers through the Company\' iTunes Music Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights offer its customers this third-party music. Many the Company\' licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term nature and not guarantee the future renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Certain parties the music industry have announced their intent consolidate their music distribution operations, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required offer music content customers through the iTunes Music Store. the Company unable continue offer wide variety music content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, expand its geographic reach outside the United States, then sales and gross margins the Company\' iTunes Music Store well related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management solutions and other security mechanisms. the requirements from content providers artists change, then the Company may required further develop license technology address such new rights and requirements. There assurance that the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner, all, which could have materially adverse affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the United States. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, and Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California, Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly substantially all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod performed third-party vendors Japan, Taiwan and China. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted regional economic, business, environmental, medical, political, military conditions events, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' products, from time time, experience quality problems that can result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third-parties that may beyond its control. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. Failure could result lost revenue, loss reputation, and significant expense remedy. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company\' retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through November , the Company has opened retail stores including its first international store Tokyo, Japan. The Company\' retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years. The Company could incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\' costs are fixed because depreciation store construction costs and lease expense. result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience decline sales for any reason. Certain the Company\' stores have been designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\' more typical retail stores. The Company has opened four such stores and has one under construction. Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total commitments per location over the lease terms ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\' control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\' future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; lack consumer acceptance the Company\' retail approach; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations outside the United States; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Unit sales the Company\' professionally oriented desktop systems have declined sharply over the past several years negatively impacting net sales and gross margin. Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared and fell % from . Power Macintosh unit sales have fallen percentage total Macintosh unit sales from % % . The Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers who are the primary users such systems. Also, likely that many the Company\' current and potential customers, particularly professional and creative customers who are most likely utilize the Company\' Power Macintosh systems, believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized other operating systems and translates slower overall system performance. addition the negative impact net sales, declining sales Power Macintosh systems also have negative effect the Company\' overall gross margin because Power Macintosh systems generally have higher individual gross margins than the Company\' other Macintosh systems. Continued deterioration Power Macintosh unit sales could adversely affect the Company\' future net sales and gross margin. future unit sales Power Macintosh systems fail ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' partially fully recover, will difficult for the Company improve its overall profitability. While the Company has introduced faster Power Macintosh systems utilizing -bit PowerPC processors during , there can assurance that introduction such systems will favorably impact net sales either the short long term. The Company faces increasing competition the . education market. Sales the United States both elementary and secondary schools, well for college and university customers, remain core market for Apple. Net sales these markets fell % the Company\' total net sales from % and % and , respectively. The drop reflects declines both net sales and Macintosh unit sales these markets % and %, respectively, fiscal compared . Additionally, several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers, which could also negatively affect the Company\' market share. effort regain market share and remain competitive, the Company has been and will continue pursue : learning solutions education. These : solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result significantly less profitability even financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase maintain its share the education market execute profitably large strategic arrangements. Failure may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\' products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world. The Company also sells its own products and certain third-party products through its retail stores. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected current economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weaken, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. The Company has invested and will continue invest various programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\' stores with Company employees. These programs could require substantial investment from the Company, while providing assurance return incremental revenue offset this investment. Over the past several years, increasing proportion the Company\' net sales have been made the Company directly end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores the United States. Some the Company\' resellers have perceived this expansion the Company\' direct sales conflicting with their own business and economic interests distributors and resellers the Company\' products. Perception such conflict could discourage the Company\' resellers from investing additional resources the distribution and sale the Company\' products lead them limit cease distribution the Company\' products. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected expansion its direct sales end-users causes some all its resellers cease limit distribution the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company\' business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can increase the cost the Company product components, negatively affecting the Company\' results operations. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions, and interest rate swap and option positions have been utilized the Company hedge exposures fluctuations interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company\' future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed available for the Company\' hardware products, then customers may choose not buy the Company\' products. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\' operating system, timely basis all. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. The Company currently markets and sells variety software applications for use professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the decision third-party software developers develop upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, and high-quality presentations. The Company also markets integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases, and presentations single application. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, for period five years through August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft was required make versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has released Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer for Mac , Microsoft not obligated produce future versions its products subsequent August . While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Company does compete directly with Microsoft number key areas. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. Discontinuance Microsoft Office and other Microsoft products for the Macintosh platform would have adverse effect the Company\' net sales and results operations. June , Microsoft stated that would longer develop new versions Internet Explorer for the Mac . Microsoft\' decision discontinue development Internet Explorer for Mac appears have been influenced part the Company\' introduction during its own web browser, Safari. unclear what impact, any, Microsoft\' decision cease further development Internet Explorer for Mac will have the Company. However, customers chose not purchase the Company\' products because Internet Explorer not available the Macintosh platform should websites fail provide support for web browsers other than Internet Explorer, the Company\' net sales and results operations could materially adversely affected. The Company\' business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\' future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected. Information regarding claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\' profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. result, the overall profitability the Company any given period will depend, part, the product, geographic, and channel mix reflected that period\' net sales. The typical concentration net sales the third month the Company\' fiscal quarters can adversely affect the Company\' business and operating results. The Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics, components suppliers, manufacturing partners, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. The Company\' success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members its executive team, and those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\' employees are located. The Company has relied its ability grant stock options one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Potential accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options may impair the Company\' future ability provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional corporate insurance. Such conditions have resulted higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, and lower coverage limits. For some risks, because cost and availability, the Company does not have insurance coverage. For these reasons, the Company retaining greater portion its insurable risks than has the past relatively greater cost. Business interruptions could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. The Company\' major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, medical conditions, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses. The Company\' operating results and financial ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Failure the Company\' information technology systems and breaches the security data could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\' ability function the normal course business potentially causing delays cancellation customer orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns its implementation sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can assurance that system failure data security breach will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivables. This risk heightened economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\' outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan and California. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operation and financial position. Changes accounting rules could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. Financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject interpretation various governing bodies, including the FASB and the SEC, who interpret and create appropriate accounting regulations. change from current accounting regulations can have significant effect the Company\' results operations and could impact the manner which the Company conducts business. Unanticipated changes the Company\' tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\' future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected unanticipated changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the Company subject the continuous examination our income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy our provision for income taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have adverse effect its operating results and financial condition. The Company\' stock price may volatile. The Company\' stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, including lack positive performance the Company\' stock price, well general economic and political conditions and investors\' concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' stock the future. The Company\' acquisition activity could disrupt its ongoing business and may present risks not contemplated the time the transaction. The Company has acquired and may continue acquire companies that have products, services, personnel and technologies that complement the Company\' strategic direction and product roadmap. These acquisitions may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties incorporating the acquired companies\' operations and technologies; distraction management\' attention away from normal business operations; insufficient revenue generation offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with acquisition; and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\' due diligence process, including product quality issues and legal contingencies. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and assurance can given that the Company\' previous future acquisitions will successful and will not materially adversely affect business, operating results financial condition. The Company has generally paid cash for its acquisitions. Should the Company issue its common stock other equity related purchase rights consideration acquisition, current shareholders\' percentage ownership and earnings per share may become diluted. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the non-hedge portfolios, the Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap and option positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company adopted SFAS . October , . SFAS . established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' fixed income investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\' investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investment portfolio and debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from and years. September , , $ billion the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments had maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. Due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for the purpose duration management the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company may sell investments prior their stated maturities. result such activity, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\' policy hold investments maturity. The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company entered into interest rate asset swaps during and had open interest rate asset swaps September , . prior years, the Company had entered into interest rate debt swaps with financial institutions. The interest rate debt swaps, which qualified accounting hedges, generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and convert portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. Due prevailing market interest rates, during the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. During the Company closed out all its then existing debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. Both the gains and were deferred, recognized long-term debt and are being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Foreign Currency Risk Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, generally benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing within the time frame our hedged positions due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies its foreign subsidiaries. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\' foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\' foreign ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual gains and losses the future associated with the Company\' investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\' actual exposures and positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DM1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Report Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DQ1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Goodwill Acquired intangible assets Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ Accrued expenses Current debt \x97 Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt \x97 Deferred tax liabilities and other non-current liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DS1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Restructuring costs \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) ( ) ( ) Other income and expense: Gains (losses) non-current investments, net ( ) Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 \x97 ( ) Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Income (loss) before accounting changes ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes \x97 Net income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share before accounting changes: Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DU1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Preferred Stock Common Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Deferred Stock Compensation Total Shareholders\' Equity Shares Amount Shares Amount Balances September , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , Components comprehensive loss: Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive loss ( ) Issuance common stock and assumption stock options connection with acquisition \x97 \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Conversion Series preferred stock ( ) ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income Amortization deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Write-off deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 Settlement forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DW1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income (loss) ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net taxes ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock based compensation expense Non-cash restructuring \x97 Benefit from deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Gains sales short-term investments, net ( ) ( ) \x97 (Gains) losses sales non-current investments, net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement ( ) \x97 \x97 Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Other liabilities ( ) Cash generated operating activities Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , , Proceeds from sales non-current investments Purchases property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash used for business acquisitions \x97 ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) investing activities ( ) Financing Activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock ( ) \x97 \x97 Cash generated financing activities Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes, net $ $ $ Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for conversion Series preferred stock $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Issuance common stock connection with acquisition $ \x97 $ \x97 $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]DY1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related software, peripherals and personal computing and communicating solutions. The Company\' products include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the Mac operating system, the iPod digital music player, and portfolio software products and peripherals for education, creative, consumer and business customers. The Company sells its products through its online stores, direct sales force, third-party wholesalers and resellers, and its own retail stores. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Typically, the Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years , and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments The Company has made investments non-current debt and equity investments public and privately held companies that have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long-term assets within other assets. They are not categorized current assets either because, given their nature, they are not readily convertible into cash because they represent potentially longer-term investments the Company. Further, the fair value these investments has been subject high degree volatility. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. However, the Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Occasionally, the Company uses short-term equity derivatives ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' manage potential dispositions non-current debt and equity investments. Any gains losses associated with such derivatives are recognized currently other income and expense. Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity May , , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . requires issuers classify liabilities ( assets some circumstances) certain freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer and have characteristics both liabilities and equity. The Company adopted the provisions SFAS . June , , which resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment approximately $ million. This adjustment related forward purchase agreement that allowed the Company acquire million shares its common stock average price $ per share for total cost $ million. The Company settled this forward purchase agreement August , which resulted additional gain approximately $ million representing the increase fair value the agreement from June , through the settlement date. Derivative Financial Instruments October , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires that all derivatives recognized either assets liabilities fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income approximately $ million. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income approximately $ million, all which was reclassified earnings during . Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are attributable particular risk and that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument reported component other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective achieving offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability identified portion thereof that are attributable particular risk and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' earnings. For derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments, changes fair value are recognized earnings the current period. For foreign currency forward contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction changes expected cash flow the option hedge maturity. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any hedge ineffectiveness recognized current earnings other income and expense. For interest rate swap agreements qualifying fair value hedges, the Company assumes ineffectiveness because these swaps meet the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . . Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Asset Retirement Obligations September , , the Company adopted SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. SFAS . requires that the fair value liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. All the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The Company estimated that September , , gross expected future cash flows $ million would required fulfill these obligations. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the date adoption, the Company recorded $ million long-term asset retirement liability and corresponding increase leasehold improvements. This amount represents the present value expected future cash flows associated with returning certain the Company\' leased properties original condition. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow $ million and its present value $ million September , , being accreted over the life the related leases operating expense. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment net income during the first quarter approximately $ million. This adjustment represents cumulative depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized through the date adoption SFAS . had the statement been applied the Company\' existing asset retirement obligations the time they were initially incurred. The following table reconciles changes the Company\' asset retirement liability for fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Asset retirement liability recorded September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made material adjustments its long-lived assets, except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . SFAS . requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. The Company completed its transitional goodwill impairment test October , , and its annual goodwill impairment tests August , and August , , respectively, and found impairment. The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\' results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products (hardware, software, and peripherals), and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\' product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the United States, and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed and determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from extended warranty and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the warranty and support periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, certain repairs, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the Company\' one-year basic limited parts and labor warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies the gross amount billed. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) the fair value each element. Allocated revenue for each element recognized when revenue recognition criteria have been met for each element. VSOE determined based the price charged when each element sold separately. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\' historical experience. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. However, limited number the Company\' software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Shipping Costs The Company\' shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for product warranties the time the related revenue recognized. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Panther"), which enhances the features and functionality the previous version Mac , subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta June , and prior release the final version the product the first quarter . Therefore, during the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with the development Panther. Amortization this asset began the first quarter when Panther was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. During the third and fourth quarters , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Jaguar") subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta May , and prior release the final version the product the fourth quarter . such, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with development Jaguar. Amortization this asset began the fourth quarter when Jaguar was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. addition, during , the Company also began capitalizing certain costs related development its new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. Capitalization approximately $ million began upon achievement technological feasibility the first quarter . The final version the enterprise student information system was released July . During the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development the original version Mac , subsequent release public beta version the product and prior release the final product version. result, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs during associated with development Mac . Related amortization ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' computed use the straight-line method accordance with SFAS . over year estimated useful life. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million and $ , , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Restructuring Charges June , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities . SFAS . supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs Exit Activity (Including Certain Costs Associated with Restructuring) and requires that liability for cost associated with exit disposal activity recognized when the liability incurred, opposed when management commits exit plan. SFAS . also establishes that the liability should initially measured and recorded fair value. This Statement was effective for exit disposal activities initiated after December , . The provisions SFAS . were required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated exit activities. Stock-Based Compensation The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees. The Company applies the disclosure provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB Opinion . because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. required under SFAS . , the pro forma effects stock-based compensation net income and earnings per common share for employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value freely traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected life options and the Company\' expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those freely traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' management\' opinion, the existing models not provide reliable measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares amortized pro forma net income (loss) over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ $ $ ( ) Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income (loss), net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net loss\x97pro forma $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Net income (loss) per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ ( ) Net loss per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options and restricted stock reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential shares common stock related stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted loss per common share for fiscal because their effect would have been antidilutive. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share: User-specified TAGGED TABLE For the Years Ended September , September , September , Numerator ( millions): Income (loss) before accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes $ $ \x97 $ Net income (loss) $ $ $ ( ) Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive options and dilutive restricted stock , , \x97 Denominator for diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , Basic earnings (loss) per share before accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 $ Basic earnings (loss) per share after accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share before accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net tax \x97 \x97 $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share after accounting changes $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Options purchase million and million shares common stock were outstanding the end and , respectively, that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share for that year because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for that year and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. September , , the Company had options purchase million shares its common stock outstanding, all which were excluded from the computation diluted loss per share for because the effect would have been antidilutive. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\' cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities . corporate securities , Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' short-term investment portfolio consists investments . Treasury and Agency securities, . corporate securities, and foreign securities. The Company\' . corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had net unrealized losses totaling $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year September , and net unrealized gains $ million its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year, September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , had maturities months. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe and Asia and arranging with third- ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\' direct customers. These credit financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. Trade receivables from single customer, Ingram Micro, Inc., accounted for approximately % and % net accounts receivable September , , and September , , respectively. The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balance sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company does not recognize any profits these sales reflect the sale these components its net sales. Inventory Prepayment April , the Company made $ million prepayment Asian supplier for the purchase components over the following nine months. return for this deposit, the supplier agreed supply the Company with specified level components during the three consecutive fiscal quarters ended December , . Approximately $ million this deposit remained unused September , and was reflected the consolidated balance sheets other current assets. During the first six months , the remainder the deposit balance was fully utilized for the purchase components. The deposit was unsecured and had stated interest component. The Company imputed amount cost sales and interest income during each period the deposit was outstanding % interest rate reflect the economics this transaction. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenues and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ $ Purchased options $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ \x97 Purchased options $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions and certain probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' accordance with SFAS . , hedges related probable but not firmly committed transactions anticipatory nature are designated and documented hedge inception cash flow hedges and evaluated for hedge effectiveness quarterly. For currency forward contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction changes expected cash flow the option hedge maturity. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income shareholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any hedge ineffectiveness recognized current earnings other income and expense. protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\' non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\' functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts offset the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. Hedge effectiveness forwards designated net investment hedges measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates, are recognized current earnings other income and expense. discussed above, the Company enters into foreign currency option contracts items that provide offset the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. All changes the fair value these derivative contracts based changes option time value are recorded current earnings other income and expense. Due market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. During , the Company recorded net gains $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. During , the Company recorded net gain $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales. net gains, losses, similar nature were recorded . Interest Rate Risk Management The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. September , , the Company had entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and converted portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps. During fiscal , the Company closed out all its existing debt interest rate swap positions due prevailing market interest rates realizing gain $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. The unrealized loss the asset swaps September , , $ million was deferred and then recognized income part the SFAS . transition adjustment effective October , . The Company closed out all its existing interest rate asset swaps during realizing gain $ million. September , and September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. Due perceived market risk, the Company entered into interest rate swaps early . The interest rate swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps during fiscal until the Company closed out the positions late due prevailing market interest rates. Closing the debt interest rate swaps resulted realized gain ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Debt The Company currently has debt outstanding the form $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes that were originally issued . The notes, which pay interest semiannually, were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes, along with approximately $ million related unamortized deferred gains closed interest rate swaps, are due February and therefore have been classified current debt September , . September , and September , , the carrying amount these notes, including unamortized deferred gains associated with closed debt interest rate swaps, was $ million and $ million, respectively, while the fair value was $ million and $ million, respectively. The fair value the notes based their listed market values September , and September , . Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company has held investments EarthLink, Inc. (EarthLink), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM), and Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung). These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets long term assets within other assets and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included total other income and expense. The combined fair value these investments held the Company was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. EarthLink January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment was EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which was convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the United States. Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Mac customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP the Company\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the United States. During the first quarter , the Company sold , , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, amount that approximated the Company\' carrying value the shares. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings EarthLink, consisting , , shares stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, and gain before taxes $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales EarthLink were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company held million shares EarthLink stock valued $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' During the second quarter , the Company determined that the decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary requiring that its cost basis written down fair value new cost basis and the amount the write-down included earnings. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold total approximately , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ , , and recognized related income tax approximately $ , . Akamai June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold , , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ million. September , , the Company\' remaining investment Akamai consists , shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales Akamai were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the decline the fair value its investment Akamai was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company held million shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. ARM ARM publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. During the third quarter , the Company sold all its remaining holdings ARM stock, consisting , shares for net proceeds approximately $ , , and gain before taxes $ , . During the first quarter , the Company sold million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. sales ARM were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . September , , the Company held , shares ARM stock valued $ , . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax expense approximately $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Samsung During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment was the form three year unsecured bonds, which were convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning July . The bonds carried annual coupon rate % and paid total yield maturity % redeemed maturity. Prior its sale, the Company had categorized its investment Samsung available-for-sale requiring that carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung was approximately $ million September , . With the adoption SFAS . October , , the Company was required account for the conversion option embedded the Samsung bonds separately from the related debt. The conversion feature was carried fair value with any changes fair value recognized earnings the period which they occur. Included the $ million gross SFAS . transition adjustment recorded earnings during the first quarter fiscal was $ million favorable adjustment for the restatement fair value October , , the derivative component the Company\' investment Samsung. adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung fair value December , , the Company recognized unrealized loss approximately $ million during the first quarter . During the second quarter , the Company sold this investment for book value, including accrued interest, and received net proceeds approximately $ million. Other Strategic Investments The Company has made additional minority debt and equity investments several privately held technology companies, which were reflected the consolidated balance sheets other assets. These investments were inherently risky because the products and markets these companies were typically not fully developed. During and , the Company determined that the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings $ million and $ million, respectively. These charges were included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , and September , , the Company had private debt equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheets. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Inventories User-specified TAGGED TABLE Purchased parts $ $ Work process \x97 Finished goods Total inventories $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Other Current Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Vendor non-trade receivables $ $ Other current assets Total other current assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Property, Plant, and Equipment User-specified TAGGED TABLE Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Other Assets User-specified TAGGED TABLE Non-current deferred tax assets $ $ Non-current debt and equity investments Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Expenses User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred revenue $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Interest and Other Income, Net User-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Gains sales short term investments \x97 Other income (expense) net ( ) ( ) Gain forward purchase agreement \x97 \x97 Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Acquisitions Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The Company ceased amortization goodwill the beginning fiscal when adopted SFAS . . The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill ( ) $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Accumulated amortization related goodwill $ million arising prior the adoption SFAS . has been reflected the gross carrying amount goodwill September , and September , . Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets amortization \x97 Acquired technology amortization Total amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net loss and net loss per share adjusted exclude amortization goodwill fiscal periods prior the adoption SFAS . fiscal follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net loss, reported $ ( ) Add: goodwill amortization $ Net loss, adjusted $ ( ) Basic loss per share, reported $ ( ) Add: goodwill amortization $ Basic loss per share, adjusted $ ( ) Diluted loss per share, reported $ ( ) Add: goodwill amortization $ Diluted loss per share, adjusted $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition Emagic GmbH During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH (Emagic), provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ million which was paid immediately upon closing the deal and $ million which was held-back for future payment contingent continued employment certain employees that will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. During fiscal , contingent consideration totaling $ million was paid. The acquisition has been accounted for purchase. The portion the purchase price allocated purchased -process research and development (IPR& ) was expensed immediately, and the portion the purchase price allocated acquired technology and tradename will amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Emagic not subject amortization pursuant the provisions SFAS . . Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Acquired technology Tradename -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts, which were completed , included finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Acquisition certain assets Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail During fiscal the Company acquired certain technology and patent rights Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail Corporation for total $ million cash. These transactions have been accounted for asset acquisitions. The purchase price for these asset acquisitions, except for $ million identified contingent consideration which will allocated compensation expense over the next years, has been allocated acquired technology and will amortized straight-line basis over years, except for certain assets acquired from Zayante associated with patent royalty streams that will amortized over years. Acquisition Nothing Real, LLC During the second quarter , the Company acquired certain assets Nothing Real, LLC (Nothing Real), privately-held company that develops and markets high performance tools designed for the digital image creation market. the $ million purchase price, the Company has allocated $ million acquired technology, which will amortized over its estimated life years. The remaining $ million, which has been identified contingent consideration, rather than recorded additional component the cost the acquired assets, will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. Acquisition Spruce Technologies, Inc. July , the Company acquired Spruce Technologies, Inc. (Spruce), privately-held company that develops and markets DVD authoring products, for $ million cash. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Spruce not subject amortization pursuant the transition provisions SFAS . . The consolidated financial statements include the operating results Spruce from the date acquisition. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible liabilities assumed $ ( ) Identifiable intangible assets Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool), provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enable schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' their children\' progress. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results PowerSchool from the date acquisition. The purchase price approximately $ million consisted the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock with fair value $ million, the issuance stock options with fair value $ million, and $ , direct transaction costs. The fair value the common stock options issued was determined using Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: volatility %, expected life years, dividend rate %, and risk-free rate %. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Deferred stock compensation Identifiable intangible assets -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined using income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. The acquired intangibles are being amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Deferred stock compensation associated with restricted stock and options being amortized over the required future vesting period years. the fourth quarter , adjustment was made increase goodwill associated with the acquisition PowerSchool $ million due the identification previously unidentified loss contingencies that were existence prior consummation the acquisition. The Company allocated $ million its purchase consideration for PowerSchool deferred stock compensation within shareholders\' equity. This amount represented the intrinsic value stock options assumed that vest future services are provided employees and related , common shares issued contingent continued employment certain PowerSchool employee stockholders. Certain PowerSchool employee stockholders were terminated the first quarter resulting the $ million recognition previously deferred stock compensation part the Company\' first quarter restructuring action. Unamortized PowerSchool related deferred stock compensation approximately $ , remains September , . Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited pro forma financial information below presents the condensed consolidated financial results the Company assuming that PowerSchool and Spruce, acquired , had been acquired the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' beginning and includes the effect amortization goodwill and other acquired identifiable intangible assets from that date. The impact the charge for IPR& associated with the acquisition PowerSchool has been excluded. This pro forma financial information presented for informational purposes only and not necessarily indicative the results future operations that would have been achieved had the acquisitions taken place the beginning . Pro forma information follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , Net loss $ ( ) Basic loss per common share $ ( ) Diluted loss per common share $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Restructuring Charges Fiscal Restructuring Actions The Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million during the year ended September , , including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million charge write-off deferred compensation, $ million asset impairments and $ million charge for lease cancellations. the $ million, nearly all had been spent the end , except for approximately $ , severance costs and approximately $ million related operating lease costs abandoned facilities. During the third quarter , approximately $ , the amount originally accrued for lease cancellations was determined excess due the sublease property sooner than originally estimated and approximately $ , shortfall was identified the severance accrual due higher than expected severance costs related the closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations. These adjustments had net effect reported operating expense. During the second quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions that resulted recognition total restructuring charge $ million, including $ million severance costs and $ , for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. Actions taken the second quarter were for the most part supplemental actions initiated the prior two quarters and focused further headcount reductions various sales and marketing functions the Company\' Americas and Europe operating segments and further reductions associated with PowerSchool-related activities the Americas operating segment, including accrual for asset write-offs and lease payments abandoned facility. The second quarter actions resulted the termination employees, were terminated prior the end . During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost $ million that resulted the termination manufacturing operations the Company-owned facility Singapore, further reductions headcount resulting from the shift PowerSchool product strategy that took place the end fiscal , and termination various sales and marketing activities the United States and Europe. These restructuring actions will ultimately result the elimination positions worldwide, all but one which were eliminated the end . Closure the Company\' Singapore manufacturing operations resulted severance costs $ million and costs $ million write-off manufacturing related fixed assets, whose use ceased during the first quarter. PowerSchool related costs included severance approximately $ , and recognition $ million previously deferred stock compensation that arose when PowerSchool was acquired the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company related certain PowerSchool employee stockholders who were terminated the first quarter . Termination sales and marketing activities and employees, principally the United States and Europe, resulted severance costs $ million and accrual costs associated with operating leases closed facilities $ million. The total net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the first quarter also reflects the reversal $ , unused restructuring accrual originally made during the first quarter . Except for certain costs associated with operating leases closed facilities, the Company currently anticipates that all the remaining accrual for severance costs approximately $ , will spent the end the first quarter fiscal . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Deferred Compensation Write-off Asset Impairments Lease Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 Accrual September , $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, all which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development the Americas operating segment. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. The Company ceased using the assets associated with first quarter restructuring actions during that same quarter. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' $ million. The first quarter restructuring actions were primarily related corporate activity not allocated operating segments. During the first quarter , the Company reversed the remaining unused accrual $ , . The following table summarizes activity associated with restructuring actions initiated during fiscal ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Employee Severance Benefits Asset Impairments Lease and Contract Cancellations Totals Total charge $ $ $ $ Total spending through September , ( ) \x97 ( ) ( ) Total non-cash items \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Adjustments \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Accrual September , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Federal: Current $ $ $ ( ) Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) State: Current \x97 Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EE1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits Other Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Available-for-sale securities \x97 Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . portion these carryforwards was acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes, follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Computed expected tax (benefit) $ $ $ ( ) State taxes, net federal effect ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) \x97 \x97 Nondeductible executive compensation ( ) \x97 Stock repurchase ( ) \x97 \x97 Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions Change valuation allowance \x97 ( ) \x97 Research & development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible expenses Other items Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ $ $ ( ) Effective tax rate % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE April , , the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) completed its audit the Company\' federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. Certain these adjustments are being contested through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\' tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\' expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company entered into Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the Agreement) with Steven . Jobs, its Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Agreement cancelled stock option awards for the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock previously granted . Jobs and . . Jobs retained options purchase , shares the Company\' common stock granted August his capacity member the Company\' Board Directors, prior becoming the Company\' CEO. The Agreement replaced the cancelled options with restricted stock award million shares the Company\' common stock. The restricted stock award generally vests three years from date grant. Vesting some all the restricted shares will accelerated the event . Jobs terminated without cause, dies, has his management role reduced following change control the Company. The Company has recorded the value the restricted stock award $ million component shareholders\' equity and amortizing that amount straight-line basis over the -year service vesting period. The value the restricted stock award was based the closing market price the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' common stock the date the award. Total amortization approximately $ million has been included selling, general, and administrative expense and will continue included approximately $ million per quarter through March . The million restricted shares have been included the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. August , the Company settled this agreement prior its maturity, which time the Company\' common stock had fair value $ . Other than this forward purchase transaction, the Company has not engaged any transactions repurchase its common stock since fiscal . Since inception the stock repurchase plan, the Company had repurchased total million shares cost $ million. The Company was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Preferred Stock August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. These shares were convertible Microsoft after August , , into shares the Company\' common stock conversion price $ per share. During , , shares preferred stock were converted million shares the Company\' common stock. During , the remaining , preferred shares were converted into million shares the Company\' common stock. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Unrealized gains available-for-sale securities $ $ $ Unrealized gains (losses) derivative investments ( ) ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation ( ) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Adjustment for net (gains) losses realized and included net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million, $ million, $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included net income (loss) was $( ) million, $ million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Changes fair value derivatives $ ( ) $ $ Adjustment for net gains realized and included net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Cumulative effect adopting SFAS . \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative instruments $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the cumulative effect adopting SFAS . was $( ) September , . The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $ million, $( ) million and $( ) million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains (losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income was $( ) million, $ million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Option Plan the Annual Meeting Shareholders held April , , the shareholders approved amendment the Executive Officer Stock Plan change the name the plan the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), provide for broad-based grants all employees addition executive officers and other key employees and prohibit future "repricings" employee stock options, including -months-plus- -day option exchange programs, without shareholder approval. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. result shareholder approval amendments the Executive Officer Stock Plan April , the Company terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan and cancelled all remaining unissued shares, following the completion employee stock option exchange program October . Employee Stock Option Exchange Program March , , the Company announced voluntary employee stock option exchange program (the Exchange Program) whereby eligible employees, other than executive officers and members the Board Directors, had opportunity exchange outstanding options with exercise prices above $ per share for predetermined smaller number new stock options issued with exercise prices equal the fair market value one share the Company\' common stock the day the new awards are issued, which would least six months plus one day after the exchange options are cancelled. April , , accordance with the Exchange Program, the Company accepted and cancelled options purchase , , shares its common stock. October , , new stock options totaling , , shares were issued employees exercise price $ per share, which equivalent the closing price the Company\' stock that date. financial accounting impact the Company\' financial position, results operations cash flow was associated with this transaction. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\' executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook and . Fred . Anderson, have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales Apple stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six-month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. the third quarter , the Company\' shareholders also approved amendment the Employee Stock Purchase Plan increase the number shares authorized for issuance million shares. Beginning with the six-month offering period that started June , , the number shares authorized for issuance limited total million shares per offering period. During , , and , million, million and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Stock Option Activity summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , , September , and September , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Restricted Stock Granted ( , ) \x97 $ Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Total options outstanding September , purchase approximately million shares not include options purchase approximately million shares that were issued October pursuant the Exchange Program described above. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The options outstanding September , have been segregated into six ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ per share. September , , the Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding with weighted average exercise price $ . Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements the effect net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share the fair value method accounting for stock compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the option awards issued October and the awards cancelled part the Exchange Program have been accounted for using modification accounting. accordance with SFAS . , the grant date the awards issued the date acceptance the exchange offer participating employees. The cancellation certain the Company\' Chief Executive Officer\' options and replacement with restricted shares March also being accounted for using modification accounting for purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Expected life stock options - years years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options %- % % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases %- % % % Volatility\x97stock options %- % % % Volatility\x97stock purchases %- % % % Dividend yields Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE For purposes the pro forma disclosures provided pursuant SFAS . , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company prior the third quarter have been based solely the historical volatility the Company\' common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\' stock options. Beginning the third quarter , the Company has modified this approach consider other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\' common stock and the impact unusual fluctuations not reasonably expected recur the historical volatility the Company\' common stock. The Company will continue monitor these and other relevant factors developing the expected volatility assumption used value future awards. Beginning the third quarter , the Company shortened its estimate the expected life new options granted its employees from years years. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock options grants employees. The change the expected life assumption made during the third quarter was the result the expected impact shortening the contractual life new options granted employees from years years and changing the vesting provisions new options granted employees from year straight-line annual vesting year straight-line quarterly vesting. Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\' total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ million, which $ million related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for Apple software and for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\' typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future expectations. The following table reconciles changes the Company\' accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other licensing agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EG1910A.; \',USER=\'DNICHOL\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, the majority which occurs various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Contingencies Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave Plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Plaintiffs filed their amended complaint January , , and March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the amended complaint. The Court heard the Company\' motion July , and dismissed Plaintiff\' claims with prejudice August , . Plaintiffs have appealed the ruling. The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions that the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and California. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse affects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations and financial position. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. September , , the Retail segment currently operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note , except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales. The Retail segment\' performance also evaluated based operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress that not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Operating income for all segments except Retail includes cost sales standard cost. Certain manufacturing expenses and related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. assess the operating performance the Retail segment several significant items are included its results for internal management reporting that are not included results the Company\' other segments. First, cost sales for the Retail segment includes mark- above the Company\' standard cost approximate the price normally charged the Company\' major channel partners the United States. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , this resulted the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Second, the Retail segment includes its net sales proceeds from sales the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts and also recognizes related cost sales based the amount which such contracts are normally sold the Company\' resellers operating retail stores the United States. This treatment consistent with how the Company\' major resellers account for the sales and cost the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts. Because the Company has not yet earned the revenue incurred the costs associated with the sale these contracts, offset these amounts recognized the Americas segment\' net sales and cost sales. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets the Americas segment, $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets the Americas segment, $ million and $ million, respectively. These amounts were insignificant fiscal . Third, portion the operating expenses associated with certain high profile retail stores are allocated from the Retail segment corporate marketing expense. Allocation these expenses reflects the unique nature these stores which, given their larger size and extraordinary design elements, function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate sales and marketing events, and brand awareness. Allocated operating costs are those excess operating costs incurred one the Company\' more typical retail locations. Stores were open three such high profile locations New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago September , . Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these three stores were $ million and $ million fiscal and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ $ $ Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Depreciation, amortization and accretion( ) $ $ $ Segment assets( ) $ $ $ Other Segments( ): Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments consists Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. Certain amounts prior fiscal periods related recent acquisitions and Internet services have been reclassified from Other Segments the Americas segment conform the presentation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Segment operating income $ $ $ Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchased -process research and development \x97 ( ) ( ) Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) \x97 Consolidated operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Segment assets $ , $ $ Corporate assets $ , $ , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, the Netherlands, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: United States $ , $ , $ , Japan Other Foreign Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: United States $ $ $ Japan Other Foreign Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: Power Macintosh( ) $ , $ , $ , PowerBook , iMac , , , iBook Total Macintosh Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Peripherals and other hardware( ) , Software( ) Service and other Net Sales Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Power Macintosh figures include server sales. ( ) Net sales peripherals and other hardware include sales iPod, Apple-branded and third-party displays, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Net sales software include sales Apple-branded operating system and application software and sales third-party software. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which was not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge was for the cost the aircraft. The other half represented all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. the fourth quarter , all significant work and payments associated with the aircraft were completed. the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent the end fiscal and was reversed. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during fiscal . For fiscal , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during and . All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included the Company selling, general, and administrative expenses. connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail, $ million for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. . Johnson repaid $ , this loan fiscal . The remaining $ , due and payable May . . Jerome York, member the Board Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (MicroWarehouse) January . Until September , , also served its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products, including products made the Company. September , , CDW Corporation (CDW), acquired selected North American assets MicroWarehouse. MicroWarehouse subsequently filed for Chapter bankruptcy protection the United States. MicroWarehouse accounted for %, %, and % the Company\' net sales fiscal , and , respectively. Trade receivables from MicroWarehouse were $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company has provided what believes adequate allowance the outstanding receivable based the Company\' secured interest position selected MicroWarehouse assets and the expected payments unsecured creditors. Sales MicroWarehouse and related trade receivables were generally subject the same terms and conditions those with the Company\' other resellers. addition, the Company purchases miscellaneous equipment and supplies from MicroWarehouse. Total purchases amounted approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal , , and , respectively. Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ ( ) $ $ $ Diluted $ ( ) $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share. Net income during the fourth and third quarters included after-tax net gains related non-current investments $ million and $ million, respectively. Net income for the fourth quarter also included settlement the Company\' forward purchase agreement resulting gain $ million and favorable cumulative-effect type adjustment related the adoption SFAS $ million. Net income (loss) ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' during the second and first quarters included restructuring charges, net tax, $ million and $ million, respectively. Net loss for the first quarter included after-tax unfavorable cumulative-effect type adjustment for the adoption SFAS $ million. Net loss for the fourth quarter included the following items, net tax: the write-down certain equity investments totaling $ million; restructuring charge $ million; -process research and development charge approximately $ million; and the reversal portion previous executive compensation expense resulting favorable impact $ million. Net income for the first quarter included restructuring charge, net tax, $ million. Net income during the first quarter also included gains, net tax, $ million related non-current investments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EI1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for asset retirement obligations and for financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity , changed its method accounting for goodwill , and changed its method accounting for hedging activities . User-specified TAGGED TABLE / / KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Mountain View, California October , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EM1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management, the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ( Exchange Act )) were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. There were significant changes the Company\' internal control over financial reporting identified management\' evaluation during the fourth quarter fiscal that have materially affected are reasonably likely materially affect the Company\' internal control over financial reporting. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' six directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("Intuit") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors Opsware, Inc. Albert Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. and Vice Chairman Metropolitan West Financial LLC since . visiting professor the University California Los Angeles, Fisk University and Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the United States . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the cabinet and the National Security Council, and the leader wide range Administration initiatives including environmental policy, technology, science, communications and government cost reduction. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since March . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. (" NeXT" ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. (" Genentech" ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company which controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\' Board Directors from January August . Previously his career was the automotive industry, with his last position being Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer and member the Board Directors Chrysler Corporation. . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that good governance depends far more than "check the box" approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (" Nominating Committee" ) and Audit and Finance Committee (" Audit Committee "). The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\' executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\' stock option plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, Gore and . Levinson. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\' corporate governance guidelines. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, Gore and . Levinson. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\' independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\' accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Consistent with the Nasdaq audit committee structure and membership requirements, the Audit Committee comprised three members: Messrs. Campbell, York and . Levinson. Because . York\' affiliation with MicroWarehouse, (see Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions), deemed "non-independent" director. permitted under the Nasdaq requirements, the Board carefully considered . York\' affiliation with MicroWarehouse well his accounting and financial expertise and determined that the best interest the Company and its shareholders that continue serve member the Audit Committee. Both . Campbell and . Levinson are independent directors. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert While more than one member the Company\' Audit Committee qualifies "audit committee financial expert" under Item ( ) Regulation - , . William . Campbell, the Committee chairperson, the designated audit committee financial expert. . Campbell considered "independent" the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide" available the Company\' website www apple com investor and filed exhibit this annual report Form - . The Company intends disclose any ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors. " Fred . Anderson , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc., position held from August March . . Anderson also serves director eBay Inc. and piphany, Inc. Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (" Compaq" ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (" ADP" ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the " Named Executive Officers" ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) , , ( ) \x97 , , \x97 ( ) \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs five million restricted shares the Company\' Common Stock which generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for past services the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . Because the aircraft was transferred . Jobs , the amount approximately $ million paid the Company during fiscal year towards the purchase the plane and the related tax assistance approximately $ million was reported income . Jobs. fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , \x97 Fred . Anderson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 , , $ , , $ , , Ronald . Johnson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , $ , Avadis Tevanian, . \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board that substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity-based. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the " Director Plan" ) and , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (" Initial Options" ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (" Annual Options" ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler, Albert Gore, . and . Arthur . Levinson, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. the beginning the fiscal year, . Jerome . York served the Committee until his resignation November which time . Drexler was appointed member the Committee. person who ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. Security Ownership Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Lord, Abbett & . , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , , ( ) * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert Gore, \x97 * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F- filed October , Lord, Abbett & ., Fifth Avenue, New York, . ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Cook has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock which . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (" SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year , except that Messrs. Campbell and York each filed one Form late under the new two-day reporting requirements. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans. User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Total equity compensation plans ( ) , , $ , , ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) October , , the Company granted , , shares under the Employee Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") pursuant the stock option exchange program (see Part , Item this ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , under the heading "Employee Stock Option Exchange Program"). Following that grant, the Company terminated the Plan, its only non-shareholder approved equity plan. All remaining unissued shares that plan were cancelled and new options can granted under that plan. ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with mergers with and acquisitions the companies which originally established those plans. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under those assumed plans. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control," defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control," their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason," those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Johnson repaid the Company $ , during the fiscal year and the amount remaining the loan $ , . . Jerome York, member the Board Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (" MicroWarehouse" ) January . Until September , served its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products, including products made the Company. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. The Company also purchased products from MicroWarehouse for its own internal use. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\' independent auditor, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees User-specified TAGGED TABLE Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees $ , ( ) $ , Tax Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , All Other Fees $ \x97 $ , Total $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\' annual financial statements, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\' Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees include professional services related the audit the Company\' financial statements, consultation accounting standards transactions, and audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\' expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for tax consulting and planning services relating interest computations and international tax changes. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Auditors Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the " Act "), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that annual budget for both audit and non-audit services approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. This policy also mandates that auditor engagements for non-audit services may entered into without the express approval the Audit Committee. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - . ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company filed part this report Form - are set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - . . Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto under Part , Item this Form - . . Exhibits User-specified TAGGED TABLE Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Filed herewith Exhibit Description Form Filing Date Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through March , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\' / % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through April , . - Reimbursement Agreement. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement - Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. Code Ethics the Company Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Independent Auditors\' Consent Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer Section Certification Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - October , , reference and furnish exhibits press release and data sheet issued the public the Company October , . The Company filed current report Form - July , , reference and furnish exhibits press release and data sheet issued the public the Company July , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 18th day December . User-specified TAGGED TABLE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Title Date / / STEVEN . JOBS STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) December , / / FRED . ANDERSON FRED . ANDERSON Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) December , / / PETER OPPENHEIMER PETER OPPENHEIMER Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) December , / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL WILLIAM . CAMPBELL Director December , / / MILLARD . DREXLER MILLARD . DREXLER Director December , / / ALBERT GORE, . ALBERT GORE, . Director December , / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ARTHUR . LEVINSON Director December , / / JEROME . YORK JEROME . YORK Director December , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JC1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN SEQ=,FILE=\'QUICKLINK\',USER=ATOBAK,SEQ=,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" " TOCEXISTFLA', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' six directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("Intuit") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors Opsware, Inc. Albert Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. and Vice Chairman Metropolitan West Financial LLC since . visiting professor the University California Los Angeles, Fisk University and Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the United States . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the cabinet and the National Security Council, and the leader wide range Administration initiatives including environmental policy, technology, science, communications and government cost reduction. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since March . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. (" NeXT" ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. (" Genentech" ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company which controls, since September . From January until September , . York was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\' Board Directors from January August . Previously his career was the automotive industry, with his last position being Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer and member the Board Directors Chrysler Corporation. . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that good governance depends far more than "check the box" approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (" Nominating Committee" ) and Audit and Finance Committee (" Audit Committee "). The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\' executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\' stock option plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, Gore and . Levinson. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\' corporate governance guidelines. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, Gore and . Levinson. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\' independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\' accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Consistent with the Nasdaq audit committee structure and membership requirements, the Audit Committee comprised three members: Messrs. Campbell, York and . Levinson. Because . York\' affiliation with MicroWarehouse, (see Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions), deemed "non-independent" director. permitted under the Nasdaq requirements, the Board carefully considered . York\' affiliation with MicroWarehouse well his accounting and financial expertise and determined that the best interest the Company and its shareholders that continue serve member the Audit Committee. Both . Campbell and . Levinson are independent directors. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert While more than one member the Company\' Audit Committee qualifies "audit committee financial expert" under Item ( ) Regulation - , . William . Campbell, the Committee chairperson, the designated audit committee financial expert. . Campbell considered "independent" the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide" available the Company\' website www apple com investor and filed exhibit this annual report Form - . The Company intends disclose any ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors. " Fred . Anderson , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc., position held from August March . . Anderson also serves director eBay Inc. and piphany, Inc. Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (" Compaq" ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (" ADP" ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the " Named Executive Officers" ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) , , ( ) \x97 , , \x97 ( ) \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs five million restricted shares the Company\' Common Stock which generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for past services the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . Because the aircraft was transferred . Jobs , the amount approximately $ million paid the Company during fiscal year towards the purchase the plane and the related tax assistance approximately $ million was reported income . Jobs. fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , \x97 Fred . Anderson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 , , $ , , $ , , Ronald . Johnson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , $ , Avadis Tevanian, . \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board that substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity-based. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the " Director Plan" ) and , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (" Initial Options" ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (" Annual Options" ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler, Albert Gore, . and . Arthur . Levinson, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. the beginning the fiscal year, . Jerome . York served the Committee until his resignation November which time . Drexler was appointed member the Committee. person who ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. ', 'item 12. ': '', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions), deemed "non-independent" director. permitted under the Nasdaq requirements, the Board carefully considered . York\' affiliation with MicroWarehouse well his accounting and financial expertise and determined that the best interest the Company and its shareholders that continue serve member the Audit Committee. Both . Campbell and . Levinson are independent directors. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available the Company\' website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert While more than one member the Company\' Audit Committee qualifies "audit committee financial expert" under Item ( ) Regulation - , . William . Campbell, the Committee chairperson, the designated audit committee financial expert. . Campbell considered "independent" the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\' employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. copy this code, "Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide" available the Company\' website www apple com investor and filed exhibit this annual report Form - . The Company intends disclose any ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors. " Fred . Anderson , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc., position held from August March . . Anderson also serves director eBay Inc. and piphany, Inc. Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (" Compaq" ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (" ADP" ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. . Tevanian served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Software Engineering from July . With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the " Named Executive Officers" ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) , , ( ) \x97 , , \x97 ( ) \x97 , , , , ( ) ( ) Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Ronald . Johnson Senior Vice President, Retail , , , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Chief Software Technology Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs five million restricted shares the Company\' Common Stock which generally vest full the third anniversary the grant date. ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for past services the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . Because the aircraft was transferred . Jobs , the amount approximately $ million paid the Company during fiscal year towards the purchase the plane and the related tax assistance approximately $ million was reported income . Jobs. fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EO1910A.; \',USER=\'JJORGE\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , \x97 Fred . Anderson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 , , $ , , $ , , Ronald . Johnson \x97 \x97 , , , $ , $ , Avadis Tevanian, . \x97 \x97 , , , $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board that substantial portion director\' annual retainer equity-based. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the " Director Plan" ) and , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (" Initial Options" ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (" Annual Options" ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler, Albert Gore, . and . Arthur . Levinson, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. the beginning the fiscal year, . Jerome . York served the Committee until his resignation November which time . Drexler was appointed member the Committee. person who ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. Security Ownership Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Lord, Abbett & . , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , , ( ) * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert Gore, \x97 * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F- filed October , Lord, Abbett & ., Fifth Avenue, New York, . ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Cook has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock which . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (" SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year , except that Messrs. Campbell and York each filed one Form late under the new two-day reporting requirements. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans. User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Total equity compensation plans ( ) , , $ , , ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) October , , the Company granted , , shares under the Employee Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") pursuant the stock option exchange program (see Part , Item this ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , under the heading "Employee Stock Option Exchange Program"). Following that grant, the Company terminated the Plan, its only non-shareholder approved equity plan. All remaining unissued shares that plan were cancelled and new options can granted under that plan. ( ) This table does not include , outstanding options assumed connection with mergers with and acquisitions the companies which originally established those plans. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under those assumed plans. Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control," defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control," their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason," those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Johnson repaid the Company $ , during the fiscal year and the amount remaining the loan $ , . . Jerome York, member the Board Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (" MicroWarehouse" ) January . Until September , served its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products, including products made the Company. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. The Company also purchased products from MicroWarehouse for its own internal use. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during . ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees paid the Company\' independent auditor, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees User-specified TAGGED TABLE Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees $ , ( ) $ , Tax Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , All Other Fees $ \x97 $ , Total $ , , $ , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\' annual financial statements, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\' Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. ( ) Audit-related fees include professional services related the audit the Company\' financial statements, consultation accounting standards transactions, and audits employee benefit plans. ( ) Tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\' expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for tax consulting and planning services relating interest computations and international tax changes. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Auditors Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the " Act "), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor policy also mandates that annual budget for both audit and non-audit services approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. This policy also mandates that auditor engagements for non-audit services may entered into without the express approval the Audit Committee. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]EQ1910A.; \',USER=\'IGORDON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - . ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company filed part this report Form - are set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - . . Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto under Part , Item this Form - . . Exhibits User-specified TAGGED TABLE Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Filed herewith Exhibit Description Form Filing Date Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through March , . - Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York. - Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Form the Company\' / % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - Director Stock Option Plan. - Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through April , . - Reimbursement Agreement. - Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement - Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. Code Ethics the Company Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Independent Auditors\' Consent Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer Section Certification Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - October , , reference and furnish exhibits press release and data sheet issued the public the Company October , . The Company filed current report Form - July , , reference and furnish exhibits press release and data sheet issued the public the Company July , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK012:[03PAL0 03PAL1910]JA1910A.; \',USER=\'ATOBAK\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}