{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) design, manufacture, and market personal computers, mobile communication devices, and portable digital music and video players and sell variety related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh ® (\x93Mac\x94), iPhone ® and iPod ® compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores, and digital content and applications through the iTunes Store ® . The Company sells consumer, small and mid-sized business (\x93SMB\x94), education, enterprise, government and creative customers. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. The Company California corporation founded . Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best personal computing, mobile communication and portable digital music and video experience consumers, students, educators, businesses, and government agencies through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, services, and Internet offerings. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating system, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical the development and enhancement innovative products and technologies. addition evolving its personal computers and related solutions, the Company continues capitalize the convergence the personal computer, mobile communications and digital consumer electronics creating and refining innovations, such iPhone, iPod and the iTunes Store. The Company desires support community for the development third-party products that complement the Company\x92 offerings through its developer programs. The Company offers various third-party software applications and hardware accessories for Mac ® computers, iPhones and iPods through its retail and online stores, well software applications for the iPhone and iPod touch platforms through its App Store\x99. The Company\x92 strategy also includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more its targeted customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. Consumer and Small and Mid-Sized Business The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company\x92 products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. The Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers and businesses through its retail and online stores. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales, including the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which places Apple employees and contractors selected third-party reseller locations, and the Apple Premium Reseller Program, through which independently run businesses focus the Apple platform and provide high level customer service and product expertise. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers efficient way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors. the end fiscal , the Company had opened total retail stores, including stores the . and stores internationally. The Company has typically located its stores high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. operating its own stores and locating them desirable high-traffic locations, the Company better positioned control the customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing the Company\x92 products and related solutions. that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes accommodate market-specific demands. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training. The stores offer wide selection third-party hardware, software, and various other accessories and peripherals that complement the Company\x92 products. Education Throughout its history, the Company has focused the use technology education and has been committed delivering tools help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation student thoughts and ideas. The Company has designed range products and services address the needs education customers, which includes one- -one (\x93 : \x94) learning. : learning solution typically consists networked environment that includes portable computer for every student and teacher. addition, the Company supports mobile learning and real-time distribution and accessibility education related materials through iTunes , which allows students and teachers share and distribute educational media directly through their computers and mobile communication devices. Enterprise, Government and Creative The Company also sells its hardware and software products customers enterprise, government and creative markets each its geographic segments. These markets are also important many third-party developers who provide Mac-compatible hardware and software solutions. Customers these markets utilize the Company\x92 products because their high-powered computing performance and expansion capabilities, networking functionality, and seamless integration with complementary products. The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions, including Mac Pro desktops, MacBook ® Pro and MacBook Air ® portable systems, and Xserve ® servers, incorporate the power, expandability, and other features desired these professionals. The Company\x92 operating system, Mac ® , incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and features developer tools optimize system and application performance. Other addition consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets, the Company provides hardware and software products and solutions for customers the information technology and scientific markets. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Japan and Retail. The Americas, Europe and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the . and international markets. Each reportable geographic operating segment and the Retail operating segment provide similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Products The Company offers range personal computing products, mobile communication devices, and portable digital music and video players, well variety related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and various third-party hardware and software products. The Company designs, develops, and markets Mac and Windows users its iPhone mobile communication devices and its family iPod digital music and video players, along with related accessories and services, including the online distribution third-party digital content and applications through the Company\x92 iTunes Store. addition, the Company offers its own software products, including Mac , the Company\x92 proprietary operating system software for the Mac; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. The Company\x92 primary products are discussed below. Mac Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and notebook computers, servers, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party hardware products. The Company\x92 Mac desktop and portable systems feature Intel microprocessors, the Company\x92 Mac Version Snow Leopard ® (\x93Mac Snow Leopard\x94) operating system and iLife ® suite software for creation and management digital photography, music, movies, DVDs and websites. MacBook ® Pro The MacBook Pro family notebook computers designed for professionals and consumers. June , the Company updated its aluminum unibody MacBook Pro line include -inch, -inch and -inch models. Each MacBook Pro includes LED-backlit display, glass Multi-Touch\x99 trackpad, illuminated keyboard, card ExpressCard slot, FireWire ® port, built- AirPort Extreme ® 11n wireless networking and Bluetooth . The -inch MacBook Pro includes GHz processor speed and NVIDIA GeForce 9400M graphics processor. The -inch and -inch MacBook Pro models offer GHz processor speed and the NVIDIA GeForce 9600M discrete graphics processor. MacBook ® The MacBook designed for consumer and education users. October , the Company updated its MacBook with new polycarbonate unibody design that includes LED-backlit display and glass Multi-Touch\x99 trackpad. The MacBook includes GHz processor speed, NVIDIA GeForce 9400M graphics processor, support for 4GB MHz SDRAM memory, Serial ATA hard drive, SuperDrive ® , built- AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking and Bluetooth . MacBook Air ® June , the Company updated its MacBook Air, ultra-slim notebook computer that measures -inches its thinnest point and -inches its maximum height when closed. The MacBook Air includes GHz processor speed with 6MB Level cache, NVIDIA GeForce 9400M graphics processor, 2GB memory, and 128GB hard drive. The MacBook Air includes -inch LED-backlit widescreen display, full-size backlit keyboard, built- iSight ® video camera, trackpad with Multi-Touch gesture support, and built- AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking and Bluetooth . Mac ® Pro The Mac Pro desktop computer targeted business and professional customers and designed meet the performance, expansion, and networking needs the most demanding Mac user. March , the Company introduced updated Mac Pro featuring two Intel Quad-Core Xeon processors running GHz, 8GB shared Level cache per processor, and 32GB MHz SDRAM memory. The Mac Pro also features direct attach storage solution for snap- installation four 1TB hard drives for total 4TB internal storage, two double-layer SuperDrive disk drives, Bluetooth and optional AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking. iMac ® The iMac desktop computer targeted consumer, education and business customers. October , the Company introduced new iMac models, which feature -inch -inch LED-backlit displays glass and aluminum enclosure. The iMac includes GHz processor speed, 16GB MHz SDRAM memory, multiple graphics card options, 2TB Serial ATA hard drive and slot-loading double-layer SuperDrive. The -inch iMac model also features Intel Quad-Core processor running GHz, and expected available November . All iMac models include built- iSight video camera, AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking, Bluetooth and come with the new wireless Magic Mouse, the first mouse with Multi-Touch technology. Mac ® mini The Mac mini desktop computer measuring -inches. October , the Company updated the Mac mini line include GHz processor speed, 4GB MHz SDRAM memory, 500GB hard drive and NVIDIA GeForce 9400M integrated graphics. All Mac mini models include built- AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking, Bluetooth , total five USB ports, and one FireWire port. Mac mini includes dual display support and can operate displays with Mini DisplayPort DVI connections. The Company also offers Mac mini that configured with Mac Snow Leopard Server, featuring two 500GB hard drives for total 1TB server storage. Xserve ® Xserve rack-mount server available with two GHz Quad-Core Intel Xeon processors and features Mac Server Snow Leopard, which became available August . Xserve supports 24GB random access memory, remote management, storage drives 3TB, optional 128GB solid state drive and optional internal Xserve RAID card. iPhone ® iPhone combines mobile phone, widescreen iPod with touch controls, and Internet communications device single handheld product. Based the Company\x92 Multi Touch user interface, iPhone features desktop-class email, web browsing, searching, and maps and compatible with both Macs and Windows-based computers. iPhone automatically syncs content from users\x92 iTunes libraries, well contacts, bookmarks, and email accounts. iPhone allows users wirelessly access the iTunes Store purchase and download audio and video content well thousands applications. July , the Company launched the App Store that allows user browse, search for, purchase third-party applications through either Mac Windows-based computer wirelessly downloading directly iPhone iPod touch. June , the Company announced iPhone 3GS, the third-generation iPhone. combines the features iPhone , which was released July , with built- three megapixel auto-focus camera, video recording and hands free voice control. iPhone 3GS quad-band GSM phone featuring , EDGE and - wireless technologies for data networking, Bluetooth , and -inch touch widescreen with - - resolution pixels per inch. iPhone 3GS provides hours talk time networks and five hours using networks, nine hours web browsing, ten hours video playback, hours audio playback. available 16GB and 32GB configurations. The Company also continues offer the iPhone 8GB configuration. September , the Company released iPhone software, which features Genius technology enhancements including Genius Mixes and Genius recommendations for applications. iPhone also incorporates improved syncing capabilities, which allows users organize their applications iTunes and sync back their iPhones. iPhone includes Cut, Copy and Paste, Spotlight ® Search, MMS messaging and landscape keyboard for Mail, Notes and Safari ® . Certain features the iPhone software are not supported some iPhone\x92 cellular network carriers. The Company has signed multi-year agreements with various cellular network carriers authorizing them distribute and provide cellular network services for iPhones. These agreements are generally not exclusive with specific carrier, except the ., Germany, Spain, Ireland, and certain other countries. addition the Company\x92 own iPhone accessories, third-party iPhone compatible products, including headsets, cables and docks, power supplies, and carrying cases, are available through the Company\x92 online and retail stores from third parties. Music Products and Services The Company offers its iPod line portable digital music and video players and related accessories Mac and Windows users. All iPods work with the Company\x92 iTunes digital music management software (\x93iTunes\x94) available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. The Company also provides online service distribute third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows, movies, podcasts, and applications through its iTunes Store. addition the Company\x92 own iPod accessories, third-party iPod compatible products are available, either through the Company\x92 online and retail stores from third parties, including portable and desktop speaker systems, headphones, car radio solutions, voice recorders, cables and docks, power supplies and chargers, and carrying cases and armbands. iPod ® shuffle September , the Company updated the third-generation iPod shuffle, flash-memory-based iPod which nearly half the size the second generation model and the first music player with the VoiceOver feature enabling speak song titles, artists and playlist names. iPod shuffle holds , songs and the first iPod shuffle accommodate playlists. iPod shuffles include shuffle switch feature that allows users listen their music random order the order their playlists synced through iTunes. iPod shuffle works with iTunes\x92 patent-pending AutoFill option that automatically selects songs fill the iPod shuffle from user\x92 iTunes library. The new iPod shuffle available 2GB and 4GB configurations aluminum design variety colors, special edition 4GB configuration stainless steel design. iPod ® nano September , the Company introduced the new iPod nano, flash-memory-based iPod. The new iPod nano includes video camera, microphone and speaker, built- radio with live pause functionality, iTunes Tagging, and built- pedometer. The new iPod nano incorporates larger -inch display with pixels per inch, built- accelerometer, and updated user interface featuring Cover Flow ® and Shake Shuffle mode. The new iPod nano also features Genius Mixes, allowing users automatically create song mixes from their music libraries. The new iPod nano provides hours audio playback five hours video playback and available 8GB and 16GB configurations variety colors. iPod ® classic The iPod classic upgraded version the original iPod, the Company\x92 hard-drive based portable digital music and video player. September , the Company introduced updated version the iPod classic, which has storage and capable holding , songs, hours video, , photos. The iPod classic provides hours audio playback six hours video playback, features \x93Genius\x94 technology, and includes -inch color screen that can display album artwork, photos, and video content including music videos, video and audio podcasts, short films, television shows, movies, and games. iPod ® touch September , the Company introduced the third-generation iPod touch, flash-memory-based iPod that -inches thin and features -inch widescreen display, Genius technology, built- speaker, and accelerometer. The new iPod touch features peer- -peer connections, which gives users the ability play multi-player games with other users, Genius Mixes, and iPhone software. The iPod touch\x92 user interface based the Company\x92 Multi-Touch user interface. also includes - wireless networking, which allows users access the iTunes - Music Store and the App Store purchase and download audio and video files, well variety other applications. The iPod touch available 8GB, 32GB and 64GB configurations and features hours audio playback and six hours video playback. iTunes ® iTunes application for playing, downloading, and organizing digital audio and video files and available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. iTunes integrated with the iTunes Store, service that allows customers find, purchase, rent, and download third-party digital music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows, movies, games, and other applications. Originally introduced the . April , the iTunes Store now serves customers countries. September , the Company announced iTunes , which includes Genius Mixes, new feature Genius technology, Home Sharing, which allows users transfer music, movies and shows among five authorized computers, and improved syncing functionality that allows users organize their iPhone applications iTunes, sync music artist and genre, and sync photos Events and Faces. January , the Company announced would offer all songs the iTunes catalog without digital rights management software and that iTunes songs would available three standard price points, beginning April most countries. Peripheral Products The Company sells variety Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible peripheral products directly end-users through its retail and online stores, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various other computing products and supplies. Displays The Company manufactures the Apple Cinema High Definition Display\x99, -inch widescreen flat panel display. October , the Company introduced -inch LED Cinema Display that features built- iSight camera, microphone, built- speaker system and MagSafe ® charger. Apple ® Apple device that permits users wirelessly play iTunes content widescreen television. Compatible with Mac Windows-based computer, Apple includes 160GB hard drive capable storing hours video, , songs, , photos, combination each and compatible with high definition televisions with resolution 1080p. Apple connects broad range widescreen televisions and home theater systems and comes standard with high-definition multimedia interface, component video, and both analog and digital optical audio ports. Using AirPort Extreme 11n wireless networking, Apple can auto-sync content from one computer stream content from five additional computers directly television. Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government, and creative customers, including the Company\x92 proprietary operating system software; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. Operating System Software Mac ® built open-source UNIX-based foundation. Mac Snow Leopard the sixth major release Mac and became available August . Mac Snow Leopard features upgraded speed and performance and includes new version QuickTime ® , support for Microsoft Exchange Server and VoiceOver integration with the Multi-Touch trackpad. Mac Snow Leopard refines percent the projects Mac , about half the size the previous version, and frees 7GB drive space once installed. Snow Leopard retains Stacks, means easily accessing files from the Dock; Finder\x99 that lets users quickly browse and share files between multiple Macs; Quick Look, way instantly see files without opening application; Spaces ® , feature used create groups applications and instantly switch between them; and Time Machine ® , way automatically back all the contents Mac. Application Software iLife ® \x92 January , the Company introduced iLife \x92 , the latest release its consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite, which features iPhoto ® , iMovie ® , iDVD ® , GarageBand ® , and iWeb\x99. iPhoto the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital photo software application, which includes new features for organizing and browsing photos, including Faces and Places which use face detection, face recognition and GPS geo-tagging technologies. iMovie the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital video editing software application and features the new Precision Editor, video stabilization, advanced drag and drop, and animated travel maps. iDVD ® the Company\x92 consumer-oriented software application that enables users turn iMovie files, QuickTime ® files, and digital pictures into interactive DVDs. GarageBand ® the Company\x92 consumer-oriented music creation software application that allows users play, record and create music using simple interface. iWeb\x99 allows users create online photo albums, blogs and podcasts, and customize websites using editing tools. iWork ® \x92 January , the Company introduced iWork \x92 , the latest version the Company\x92 integrated productivity suite designed help users create, present, and publish documents, presentations, and spreadsheets. iWork \x92 includes updates Pages ® \x92 for word processing and page layout, Keynote ® \x92 for presentations, and Numbers ® \x92 for spreadsheets. Among the new features iWork, Keynote introduces advanced object transitions, Pages features new full screen view, and Numbers introduces quick way group and summarize data and simplified way create complex formulas. Final Cut Studio ® July , the Company updated Final Cut Studio ® , the Company\x92 video production suite designed for video professionals. Final Cut Studio features Final Cut Pro ® for video editing, DVD Studio Pro ® for DVD authoring, Motion for real-time motion graphics, Soundtrack ® Pro for audio editing and sound design, Color for color grading and finishing, and Compressor for encoding media multiple formats. The Company also offers Final Cut Express , consumer version the Company\x92 movie making software, and Final Cut Server . Logic Studio ® July , the Company updated Logic Studio, comprehensive suite professional tools used musicians and professionals create, perform, and record music. Logic Studio features Logic ® Pro , upgraded version the Company\x92 music creation and audio production software application; MainStage ® , live performance application; Soundtrack ® Pro , professional audio post production software; Compressor for encoding variety formats; Studio Instruments, made instrument plug-ins; Studio Effects, with professional effect plug-ins; and studio Sound Library. addition, the Company offers Logic Express , version that includes many the features Logic Studio Pro and provides easy entry into professional music production. FileMaker ® Pro The FileMaker Pro database software offers relational databases and desktop- -web publishing capabilities. January , the Company introduced FileMaker Pro , which features new interface, redesigned and customizable Status Toolbar, the ability save the results search and Script Triggers, which launch scripts triggered user actions based time limits. The Company also offers FileMaker Pro Advanced, FileMaker Server and FileMaker Server Advanced. Internet Software and Services The Company focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\x92 products and services. The Company\x92 Internet solutions adhere many industry standards provide optimized user experience. Safari ® June , the Company released Safari , web browser compatible with Macs and Windows PCs. Safari features the Nitro engine, which runs JavaScript faster than Safari and includes enhanced browsing functionality with Top Sites, Full History Search and Cover Flow. Safari supports video and audio tags HTML and supports CSS Animations and Web Fonts, which provide designers additional choices fonts create web sites. QuickTime ® QuickTime, the Company\x92 multimedia software for Mac Windows-based computers, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet and playback high-quality audio and video computers. QuickTime features encoding and can automatically determine user\x92 connection speed ensure they are getting the highest-quality content stream possible. QuickTime also delivers multi-channel audio and supports wide range industry standard audio formats. The Company also offers QuickTime , new version QuickTime that ships with Mac Snow Leopard, and QuickTime Pro, suite software tools, allows creation and editing Internet-ready audio and video files. MobileMe\x99 June , the Company introduced MobileMe, annual subscription-based suite Internet services that delivers email, contacts and calendars and from native applications iPhone, iPod touch, Macs, and Windows-based computers. MobileMe services include Internet message access protocol mail, -free email service; website hosting for publishing websites from iWeb; iDisk ® , virtual hard drive accessible anywhere with Internet access; Web Gallery for viewing and sharing photos that fully integrated with iPhoto and iMovie; MobileMe Sync, which keeps Safari bookmarks, iCal ® calendars, Address Book information, Keychain ® , and Mac Mail preferences - -date across multiple computers, iPhones, and iPod touches. When combined with iPhone, MobileMe features Find iPhone, which helps users locate their lost iPhones, and new Remote Wipe feature that allows users erase all data and content their iPhones cannot located. MobileMe provides combined email and file storage 20GB for individuals and 40GB for families with additional storage options. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for the Company\x92 customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan fee-based service that typically includes two three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. Markets and Distribution The Company\x92 customers are primarily the consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. individual customer accounted for more than % net sales , . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly customers through its own sales force and retail and online stores. Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The markets for personal computers, mobile communication devices, consumer electronics, related software, services and peripheral products are highly competitive. These markets are characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software that have substantially increased the capabilities and use personal computers, mobile communication devices, and other digital electronic devices that have resulted the frequent introduction new products with competitive price, feature, and performance characteristics. Over the past several years, price competition these markets has been particularly intense. The Company\x92 competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors include price, product features, relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software and peripherals, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete with the Company\x92 products. The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related mobile communication devices including the iPhone. The mobile communications industry highly competitive and includes several large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition the mobile communication industry intensify significantly competitors attempt imitate some the iPhone\x92 functionality and applications within their own smart phones , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. This industry characterized aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company\x92 music products and services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company believes currently retains competitive advantage offering superior innovation and integration the entire solution including the hardware (personal computer, iPhone and iPod), software (iTunes), and distribution digital content and applications (iTunes Store, iTunes - Music Store and App Store). Some the Company\x92 current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\x92 offerings. Alternatively, these competitors may collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more integrated than those they currently offer. The Company\x92 future financial condition and operating results are substantially dependent the Company\x92 ability continue develop and offer new innovative products and services each the markets competes . Raw Materials Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including but not limited microprocessors, enclosures, certain liquid crystal displays (\x93LCDs\x94), certain optical drives, and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources, which subjects the Company significant supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components available from multiple sources including but not limited NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (\x93DRAM\x94), and certain LCDs, are subject times industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. addition, the Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable pricing, but there guarantee the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar favorable terms, all, upon expiration otherwise obtain favorable pricing the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company and other participants the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. addition, the Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply key single-sourced component for new existing product were delayed constrained, such components were available only significantly higher prices, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Significant portions the Company\x92 Mac computers, iPhones, iPods, logic boards and other assembled products are manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. significant concentration this outsourced manufacturing currently performed only few the Company\x92 outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturing outsourcing for many the Company\x92 key products, including but not limited final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable Mac computers, iPhones, iPods and most the Company\x92 desktop products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company they were encounter financial distress become insolvent, incur capacity supply constraints, become unable obtain credit, for any other reason could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 business and financial condition. this time, such vendors include, without limitation, ., Advanced Micro Devices Inc., AKM Semiconductor Inc., Amkor Technology Inc., Analog Devices Inc., Aptina Imaging Corp., ARM Holdings PLC., Atheros Communications Inc., Atmel Corp., Optronics Corp., Avago Technologies Ltd., Broadcom Corp., Cirrus Logic Inc., Corning Inc., Cypress Semiconductor Corp., Dover Corp., Flextronics Inc., Foxconn Technology . Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry . Ltd., Imagination Technologies Group PLC., Infineon Technologies , Intel Corp., Inventec Appliances Corp., Display . Ltd., Linear Technology Corp., MagnaChip Semiconductor Corp., Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Mitsumi Electric . Ltd., Murata Mfg. . Ltd., National Semiconductor Corp., Nichia Corp., NVIDIA Corp., NXP ., OmniVision Technologies Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Pegatron Corp., Philips Lumileds Lighting ., Renesas Semiconductor . Ltd., Micro Devices Inc., ROHM . Ltd., Samsung Electronics . Ltd., Skyworks Solutions Inc., STMicroelectronics , Sumitomo Chemical . Ltd., Texas Instruments Inc., Toshiba Corp., Toyoda Gosei . Ltd., and TriQuint Semiconductor Inc. Research and Development Because the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\x92 ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas computer hardware and peripherals, mobile communication devices, consumer electronics products, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and Internet services and solutions. The Company may expand the range its product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and acquisition third-party business and technology. The Company\x92 research and development expenditures totaled $ billion, $ billion and $ million , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, iPhone and iPod devices, peripherals, software and services. addition, the Company has registered and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries for \x93Apple,\x94 the Apple logo, \x93Macintosh,\x94 \x93Mac,\x94 \x93iPhone,\x94 \x93iPod,\x94 \x93iTunes,\x94 \x93iTunes Store,\x94 \x93Apple ,\x94 \x93MobileMe\x94 and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect inventions arising from its research and development, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated portfolio several thousand issued patents the . and worldwide. addition, the Company currently holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single patent copyright solely responsible for protecting the Company\x92 products. The Company believes the duration the applicable patents has been granted adequate relative the expected lives its products. Due the fast pace innovation and product development, the Company\x92 products are often obsolete before the patents related them expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related them are even granted. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the computer, digital music player and mobile communications industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The . represents the Company\x92 largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\x92 net sales came from sales customers inside the . Final assembly the Company\x92 products currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Ireland, and external vendors California, Texas, the People\x92 Republic China (\x93China\x94), the Czech Republic and the Republic Korea (\x93Korea\x94). Currently, the supply and manufacture many critical components performed sole-sourced third-party vendors the ., China, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors China perform final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable Mac products, iPhone, iPods and most the Company\x92 desktop products. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item and Item this Form - and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters compared other quarters its fiscal year due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year. This historical pattern should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty most its hardware products, including Mac computers, iPhones and iPods. The basic warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the original end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase the AppleCare Protection Plan, which extends service coverage many the Company\x92 hardware products most its major markets. Backlog the Company\x92 experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions dealers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect the Company\x92 capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. the future, compliance with environmental laws could materially adversely affect the Company. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and additional , full-time equivalent temporary employees and contractors. Available Information The Company\x92 Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (\x93Exchange Act\x94), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (the \x93SEC\x94). Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge the Company\x92 website http://www apple com investor when such reports are available the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\x92 Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC http://www sec gov . The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\x92 references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company\x92 operations and performance depend significantly worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses risk consumers and businesses may continue postpone spending response tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and declines income asset values, which could have material negative effect demand for the Company\x92 products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company\x92 expectations since the Company generally raises prices goods and services sold outside the . offset the effect the strengthening the . dollar, trend that has been very pronounced recently. Other factors that could influence demand include increases fuel and other energy costs, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company\x92 products and services and the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. the event renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, there could new incremental tightening the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. addition, the risk remains that there could number follow- effects from the credit crisis the Company\x92 business, including the insolvency key suppliers their inability obtain credit finance development and manufacture products resulting product delays; inability customers, including channel partners, obtain credit finance purchases the Company\x92 products and customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the Company\x92 treasury operations. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending gains losses realized the sale exchange financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes fair value derivative instruments. Increased volatility the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk the actual amounts realized the future the Company\x92 financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned them. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue increase the volatility the Company\x92 stock price. Global markets for personal computers, mobile communication devices, digital music and video devices, and related peripherals and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change. the Company unable compete effectively these markets, its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company competes highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price cutting, with resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction innovative new products and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its personal computers, mobile communication devices, and consumer electronics, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments research and development and such, the Company currently holds significant number patents and copyrights and has registered and has applied register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. contrast, many the Company\x92 competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins other companies infringe the Company\x92 intellectual property, the Company\x92 ability maintain competitive advantage could negatively affected and its financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces significant number competitors, many which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer bases. Consolidation this market has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition key market segments, including consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets. increasing number Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. The Company currently the only authorized maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results depend substantially the Company\x92 ability continually improve the Mac platform maintain functional and design advantages. Use unauthorized copies the Mac other companies\x92 hardware products may result decreased demand for the Company\x92 hardware products, and could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company currently focused certain mobile communication devices, such iPhone, consumer electronic devices, including the iPod family digital music and video players and third-party digital content and applications distribution. The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company has only recently entered the mobile communications market, and many its competitors the mobile communications market have significantly greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and lower cost structure, they may able provide such products and services little profit even loss. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\x92 approach providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company currently receives subsidies from its exclusive and non-exclusive carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone. There assurance that such subsidies will continued all the same amounts upon renewal the Company\x92 agreements with these carriers agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success new product introductions depends number factors including but not limited timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and costs meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions its financial condition and operating results. The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, assurance can given that, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the global personal computer, mobile communication, and consumer electronics industries, the Company will not incur additional inventory asset related charges. Such charges have, and could, materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, open orders and, where appropriate, prepayments, each case based projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for days. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient inventories components products. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results have been the past and could the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable prices and sufficient quantities. Because the Company currently obtains certain key components including but not limited microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and ASICs, from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited NAND flash memory, DRAM and certain LCDs, are subject times industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable pricing, but there guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar favorable terms, all, upon expiration otherwise obtain favorable pricing the future. The follow- effects from the credit crisis the Company\x92 key suppliers, referred \x93 Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company\x94 above, which incorporated herein reference, also could affect the Company\x92 ability obtain key components. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company expects experience decreases its gross margin percentage future periods, compared levels achieved during and , due largely the anticipated impact product transitions, flat reduced pricing new and innovative products that have higher cost structures, both expected and potential future cost increases for key components, stronger . dollar and higher logistical costs. For additional information refer Part , Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations,\x94 under the subheading \x93Gross Margin,\x94 which incorporated herein reference. The Company and other participants the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries. The Company\x92 new products often utilize custom components available from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. the supply key single-sourced component for new existing product were delayed constrained, such components were available only significantly higher prices, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Most the Company\x92 components and products are manufactured whole part few third-party manufacturers. Many these manufacturers are located outside the ., and are concentrated several general locations. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity products services, the Company\x92 flexibility respond changing conditions. addition, the Company relies third-party manufacturers adhere the Company\x92 supplier code conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 reputation, financial condition and operating results. Final assembly the Company\x92 products currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Ireland, and external vendors California, Texas, China, the Czech Republic and Korea. Currently, the supply and manufacture many critical components performed sole-sourced third-party vendors the ., China, Germany, Ireland, Israel Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors China perform final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable Mac products, iPhones, iPods and most the Company\x92 desktop products. manufacturing logistics these locations disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company relies third-party digital content and applications, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with certain third parties offer their digital content and applications through the Company\x92 iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights audio and video content. The Company\x92 licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers currently the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company\x92 access , increase the total cost , such content. the Company unable continue offer wide variety content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results may materially adversely affected. Many third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management (\x93DRM\x94) and other security solutions. these requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose legislation that would force the Company license its DRM, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and also could affect arrangements with the Company\x92 content providers. The Company relies access third-party patents and intellectual property, and the Company\x92 future results could materially adversely affected alleged found have infringed intellectual property rights. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include third-party intellectual property, and the future the Company may need seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained reasonable terms, there assurance that the necessary licenses would available acceptable terms all. Because technological changes the global personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents other intellectual property rights third parties. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing such rights. Regardless merit, responding such claims can consume significant time and expense. present, the Company vigorously defending more than patent infringement cases, which were filed during fiscal , and several pending claims are various stages evaluation. certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements, although assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the Company found infringing such rights, may required pay substantial damages. there temporary permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain products successful claim infringement against the Company requires pay royalties third party, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected, regardless whether can develop non-infringing technology. While management\x92 opinion the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any known current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. With the June introduction iPhone, the Company has begun compete with mobile communication device companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless the scope validity such patents the merits any potential patent claims competitors, the Company may have engage protracted litigation, enter into expensive agreements settlements and modify its products. Any these events could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 future performance depends support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company\x92 products, customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products, including its Macs, iPhones and iPods, are often based certain extent the availability third-party software applications and services. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain applications and services for the Company\x92 products timely basis all, and discontinuance delay these applications and services could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. With respect its Mac products, the Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services depends part the developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products compared Windows-based products. This analysis may based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such applications and services. the Company\x92 minority share the global personal computer market causes developers question the Company\x92 prospects, developers could less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company\x92 products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company\x92 development its own software applications and services may also negatively affect the decisions third-party developers, such Microsoft, Adobe and Google, develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software and services for the Company\x92 products. Mac Version Leopard (\x93Mac Leopard\x94), which became available October , includes new feature that enables Intel-based Mac systems run Microsoft Windows and Windows Vista operating systems. This feature may deter developers from creating software applications for Mac such applications are already available for the Windows platform. With respect iPhone and iPod touch, the Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications. Unlike third-party software applications for Mac products, the software applications for the iPhone and iPod touch platforms are distributed through single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence multiple distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance third-party applications the Company\x92 customers, thereby causing developers curtail significantly, stop, development for the Company\x92 platforms. addition, iPhone and iPod touch are subject rapid technological change, and, third-party developers are unable keep with this pace change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result dissatisfied customers. Further, the Company develops its own software applications and services, such development may negatively affect the decisions third-party developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive applications for the iPhone and iPod touch platforms. with applications for the Company\x92 Mac products, the availability and development these applications also depend developers\x92 perceptions and analysis the relative benefits developing software for the Company\x92 products rather than its competitors\x92 products, including devices that use competing platforms. developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company\x92 devices may suffer. The Company\x92 future operating performance depends the performance distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly end-users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online and retail stores. iPhone distributed through the Company, its cellular network carriers\x92 distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. Many resellers operate narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected the past weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their business interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Such perception could discourage resellers from investing resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution those products. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens, resellers stopped distributing the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\x92 products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require substantial investment while providing assurance return incremental revenue. The Company\x92 retail business has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through September , , the Company had opened retail stores. The Company\x92 retail stores have required substantial fixed investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with terms ranging from five years, the majority which are for ten years. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. Due the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, decline sales the closure poor performance individual multiple stores could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Many factors unique retail operations, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, pose risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, macro-economic factors that could have negative effect general retail activity, well the Company\x92 inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability sell third-party products adequate margins, failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners, more challenging environment managing retail operations outside the ., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value retail inventory, and inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, insufficient revenue offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return capital, and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 products and services experience quality problems from time time that can result decreased sales and operating margin. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products and services that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the software\x92 intended operation. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware, software and services sells. Failure could result lost revenue, harm reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. certain countries, including the ., the Company relies single cellular network carrier provide service for iPhone. the ., Germany, Spain, Ireland and certain other countries, the Company has contracted with single carrier provide cellular network services for iPhone exclusive basis. these exclusive carriers cannot successfully compete with other carriers their markets any basis, including but not limited the quality and coverage wireless voice and data services, performance and timely build-out advanced wireless networks, and pricing and other terms conditions end-user contracts, these exclusive carriers fail promote iPhone aggressively favor other handsets their promotion and sales activities service plans, sales may materially adversely affected. The Company subject risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related mobile communications devices. Laws and regulations related mobile communications devices the many jurisdictions which the Company operates are extensive and subject change. Such changes, which could include but are not limited restrictions production, manufacture, distribution, and use the device, locking the device carrier\x92 network, mandating the use the device more than one carrier\x92 network, could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Mobile communication devices, such iPhone, are subject certification and regulation governmental and standardization bodies, well cellular network carriers for use their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result additional testing requirements, product modifications delays product shipment dates, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 success depends largely the continued service and availability key personnel. Much the Company\x92 future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and highly skilled employees technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where most the Company\x92 key personnel are located. There can assurance that the Company will continue attract and retain key personnel. addition, the Company has relied equity awards the form stock options and restricted stock units one means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Significant adverse volatility the Company\x92 stock price could result stock option\x92 exercise price exceeding the underlying stock\x92 market value significant deterioration the value restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the effectiveness stock-based awards for retaining employees. Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have strong negative effect the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company\x92 business operations are subject interruption natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company make and deliver products its customers, including channel partners, receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could negatively affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority the Company\x92 research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses and significant recovery time could required resume operations, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. The Company may subject information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches data security caused such factors including without limitation earthquakes, fire, theft, other causes could disrupt the Company\x92 operations causing delays cancellation customer, including channel partner, orders, negatively affecting the Company\x92 online, iTunes, MobileMe and retail offerings and services, impeding the manufacture shipment products, processing transactions and reporting financial results, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information, damage the Company\x92 reputation. While management has taken steps address these concerns implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can assurance that system failure loss data security breach will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\x92 profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\x92 software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain the Company\x92 other products. Gross margins the Company\x92 hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time result product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company\x92 direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. addition, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability, may materially adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, new products, component cost increases, strengthening . dollar, price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared the second and third fiscal quarters due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year, respectively. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time- -time during the third month quarter than does during either the first two months. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 key logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners, could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company\x92 stock price continues volatile. The Company\x92 stock has times experienced substantial price volatility due number factors, including but not limited variations between its actual and anticipated financial results, announcements the Company and its competitors, and uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that may have been unrelated these companies\x92 operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. the Company fails meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. The Company derives large and growing portion its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with . and foreign laws and regulations that apply the Company\x92 international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs doing business foreign jurisdictions, and such costs may rise the future result changes these laws and regulations their interpretation. Furthermore, the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can assurance that the Company\x92 employees, contractors, agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company\x92 policies. Any such violations could individually the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. The Company\x92 financial condition and operating results also could significantly affected other risks associated with international activities, including but not limited , economic and labor conditions, political instability, and changes the value the . dollar versus local currencies. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non- . dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada and certain parts Asia, well non- . dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar will adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company\x92 products. some circumstances, due competition other reasons, the Company may decide not raise local prices the full extent the dollar\x92 strengthening, all, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies, while generally beneficial the Company\x92 foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may also increase the Company\x92 cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company has used derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset any more than portion the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the market values its investment portfolio. Although the Company has not recognized any material losses its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, any significant future declines their market values could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature its business, the Company has investments both domestically and internationally. Additionally, the Company\x92 overall investment portfolio has concentrations the financial sector, which has been negatively impacted adverse market liquidity conditions the recent past. Credit ratings and pricing these investments can negatively impacted liquidity, credit deterioration losses, financial results, other factors. result, the value liquidity the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result material impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivable and prepayments related long-term supply agreements. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components contract manufacturers and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply certain inventory components. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The matters relating the Company\x92 past stock option practices and its restatement consolidated financial statements may result additional litigation. The Company\x92 investigation into its past stock option practices and its restatement prior financial statements the Annual Report Form - for the year ended September , gave rise litigation and government investigations. described Part , Item , \x93Legal Proceedings,\x94 several derivative and class action complaints regarding stock options were filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors. These actions have been dismissed following comprehensive settlement. Two former officers the Company were also named defendants SEC enforcement action, which has been settled. assurance can given that additional actions will not filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors result past stock option practices. such actions are filed and result adverse findings, the remedies could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Unfavorable results legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out the ordinary conduct its business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise the future. Results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Regardless merit, litigation may both time-consuming and disruptive the Company\x92 operations and cause significant expense and diversion management attention. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into material settlements. Should the Company fail prevail certain matters, should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the Company may faced with significant monetary damages injunctive relief against that would materially adversely affect portion its business and might materially affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company subject risks associated with laws and regulations related health, safety and environmental protection. The Company\x92 products and services, and the production and distribution those goods and services, are subject variety laws and regulations. These may require the Company offer customers the ability return product the end its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based the nature its operations and the focus such laws, there assurance such existing laws future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Changes the Company\x92 tax rates, the adoption new . tax legislation exposure additional tax liabilities could affect its future results. The Company subject taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The Company\x92 future effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the current administration and Congress have recently announced proposals for new . tax legislation that, adopted, could adversely affect the Company\x92 tax rate. Any these changes could have material adverse affect the Company\x92 profitability. The Company also subject the continual examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and coverage insurance. For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because cost and availability. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits could materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned and leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia Pacific region. The Company\x92 total leased space was approximately million square feet, which approximately million square feet was retail space, majority which the . September , , the Company owned manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also housed customer support call center and facilities Elk Grove, California that included warehousing and distribution operations and customer support call center. addition, the Company owned facilities for research and development and corporate functions Cupertino, California, including land for the future development the Company\x92 second corporate campus. The Company also owned data center Newark, California and, during , purchased additional land North Carolina for future data center facility. Outside the ., the Company owned additional facilities for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings September , , the end the annual period covered this report, the Company was subject the various legal proceedings and claims discussed below, well certain other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and results operations. Bader . Anderson, . Plaintiff filed this purported shareholder derivative action against the Company and each its then current executive officers and members its Board Directors May , Santa Clara County Superior Court asserting claims for breach fiduciary duty, material misstatements and omissions and violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition). The complaint alleged that the Company\x92 March , , proxy statement was false and misleading for failure disclose certain information relating the Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan, which was approved shareholders the annual meeting held April , . Plaintiff, who ostensibly brought suit the Company\x92 behalf, made demand the Board Directors and alleged that such demand was excused. The complaint sought injunctive and other relief for purported injury the Company. July , , plaintiff filed amended complaint alleging that, addition the purported derivative claims, adoption the bonus plan and distribution the proxy statement describing that plan also inflicted injury her directly individual shareholder. January , , the Court sustained defendants\x92 demurrer the amended complaint, with leave amend. Plaintiff filed second amended complaint February , , and the Company filed demurrer. After hearing June , , the Court sustained the demurrer without leave amend the non-director officers and with leave amend the directors. July , , plaintiff filed third amended complaint, which purported bring claims derivatively well directly behalf class common stockholders who have been will harmed virtue the allegedly misleading proxy statement. addition reasserting prior causes action, the third amended complaint included claim that the Company violated the terms the plan, and claim for waste related restricted stock unit grants certain officers and and option grant the Company\x92 CEO January . The Company filed demurrer the third amended complaint. January , , the Court sustained the Company\x92 demurrer with leave amend. May , , plaintiff filed fourth amended complaint. The Company filed demurrer the fourth amended complaint, which the Court sustained, without leave amend, October , . October , , the Court entered final judgment favor defendant and ordered the case dismissed with prejudice. November , , plaintiff filed notice appeal. hearing plaintiff\x92 appeal scheduled for October , . Birdsong . Apple Computer, Inc. This action alleges that the Company\x92 iPod music players, and the ear bud headphones sold with them, are inherently defective design and are sold without adequate warnings concerning the risk noise-induced hearing loss iPod users. The Birdsong action was initially filed January , the United States District Court for the Western District Louisiana asserting Louisiana causes action behalf purported Louisiana class iPod purchasers. similar action (Patterson . Apple Computer, Inc.) was filed January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California asserting California causes action behalf purported class all iPod purchasers within the four-year period before January , . The Birdsong action was transferred the Northern District California, and the Patterson action was dismissed. amended complaint was subsequently filed Birdsong, dropping the Louisiana law-based claims and adding California law-based claims equivalent those Patterson. After the Company filed motion dismiss November , , plaintiffs agreed not oppose the motion and filed second amended complaint January , . That complaint alleges California law-based claims for breaches implied and express warranties, violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and negligent misrepresentation behalf putative nationwide class and Louisiana law-based claim for redhibition for Louisiana sub-class. March , , the Company filed motion dismiss the California law-based claims, which was heard June , . December , , the Court issued order granting the Company\x92 motion, with leave amend the complaint. January , , plaintiffs filed third amended complaint, which seeks restitution, injunctive relief, unspecified damages and attorneys\x92 fees. February , , the Company filed motion dismiss the third amended complaint. June , , the Court granted the Company\x92 motion dismiss the third amended complaint with prejudice. July , , plaintiffs filed notice appeal. hearing plaintiffs\x92 appeal took place October , . similar complaint, Royer-Brennan . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc., was filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada, February , , seeking authorization institute class action behalf iPod purchasers Quebec. Plaintiffs filed motion amend their complaint add minor plaintiff and claims regarding alleged risks hearing loss young people. The hearing the motion amend took place April , , and the Court denied plaintiffs\x92 motion with leave resubmit . Branning . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs originally filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court February , . The initial complaint alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act regarding variety purportedly unfair and unlawful conduct including but not limited allegedly selling used computers new and failing honor warranties. Plaintiffs also brought causes action for misappropriation trade secrets, breach contract and violation the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiffs requested unspecified damages and other relief. May , , plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding two new named plaintiffs and three new causes action including claim for treble damages under the Cartwright Act (California Business & Professions Code § seq.) and claim for false advertising. May , , the Court granted the Company\x92 motion transfer the case Santa Clara County Superior Court. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint, which the Court sustained its entirety November , . The Court granted plaintiffs leave amend and they filed amended complaint December , . Plaintiffs\x92 amended complaint added three plaintiffs and alleged many the same factual claims the previous complaints, such alleged selling used equipment new, alleged failure honor warranties and service contracts for the consumer plaintiffs, and alleged fraud related the opening the Apple retail stores. Plaintiffs continued assert causes action for unfair competition (§ ), violations the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, breach contract, misappropriation trade secrets, violations the Cartwright Act, and alleged new causes action for fraud, conversion, and breach the implied covenant good faith and fair dealing. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint January , , which the Court sustained March , sixteen seventeen causes action. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding one new plaintiff. The Company filed demurrer, which was granted part September , . Plaintiffs filed further amended complaint September , . October , , the Company filed answer denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. November , , the Company filed motion for judgment the pleadings, which the Court denied. Plaintiffs filed Fifth Amended Complaint March , and Corrected Fifth Amended Complaint April , . The Company filed answer the Corrected Fifth Amended Complaint April , . The Company filed motion for judgment the pleadings for order dismissing plaintiffs\x92 fraud claim based upon the statute limitations, which was granted the Court June , , with leave amend. Plaintiffs filed Sixth Amended Complaint July , and Seventh Amended Complaint August , , adding three new reseller plaintiffs. August , , plaintiffs also filed motion certify the consumer class. September , , the Company filed its answer the consumer-related claims denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses, and also filed demurrer the new reseller claims, which the Court heard January , . The Court sustained the demurrer all plaintiffs except one, with leave amend. Plaintiffs filed Eighth Amended Complaint further amending the reseller claims February , , and March , , the Company filed demurrer which was overruled, and motion strike which was denied. The Company filed motions for summary adjudication for certain claims two named plaintiffs, which the Court granted November , . Plaintiffs petitioned the Court Appeal for writ certiorari from the summary adjudication ruling and motion stay the class certification hearing, which the Court Appeal denied December , . December , , the Court held hearing plaintiffs\x92 class certification motion. The Court requested further briefing and additional hearing, which did not take place because February , , Hon. Jamie . Jacobs-May disqualified herself from the case. The Company filed petition for writ mandate from this order, which the Court Appeal denied May , . The case has been reassigned Hon. Joseph . Huber. The class certification hearing the consumer-related claims took place July , . The Company has filed two additional motions for summary adjudication all the named plaintiffs\x92 claims. The Company has also filed motion sever the consumer class and the reseller class for the purpose trial. Plaintiffs\x92 motion for class certification the reseller class due November , . Harvey . Apple Inc. Plaintiff filed this action August , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patent . , , entitled \x93Recharger for use with portable electronic device and which includes proximally located light emitting device\x94 and . Patent . , , entitled \x93Recharger for use with portable electronic device and which includes connector terminus for communicating with rechargeable batteries contained within the device.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment non-infringement and invalidity. April , , plaintiff filed amended complaint further alleging infringement the reissue patent . Patent . , , . April , , the Company filed answer denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment non-infringement and invalidity. The Markman hearing set for October , , and trial scheduled for April , . February , , the Court stayed the proceedings pending the . Patent and Trademark Office\x92 allowance the \x91 reissue patent. July , , the Company filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California. September , , the Company filed motion vacate the Markman hearing set for October , , given the still pending reissue proceeding regarding . Patent . , , . Honeywell International, Inc., . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs Honeywell International, Inc. and Honeywell Intellectual Properties, Inc. filed this action October , the United States District Court Delaware alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . Patent . , , entitled \x93Directional Diffuser for Liquid Crystal Display.\x94 Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer December , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has tendered the case several liquid crystal display manufacturer suppliers. May , the Court stayed the case against the Company and the other non-manufacturer defendants. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint November , adding additional defendants and expanding the scope the accused products. The Company\x92 response the amended complaint not yet due. April , , the Court lifted the stay for the purpose determining whether the liquid crystal display manufacturer suppliers used the Company and certain other defendants are licensed under the \x91 patent. October , , the Company filed motion for summary judgment non-infringement based the contention that its suppliers are licensed under the \x91 patent. hearing the motion has been postponed and has not been rescheduled. Apple iPod Nano Products Liability Litigation (formerly Wimmer . Apple Computer, Inc.; Moschella, ., . Apple Computer, Inc.; Calado, . . Apple Computer, Inc.; Kahan, ., . Apple Computer, Inc.; Jennings, ., . Apple Computer, Inc.; Rappel . Apple Computer, Inc.; Mayo . Apple Computer, Inc.; Valencia . Apple Computer, Inc.; Williamson . Apple Computer, Inc.; Sioson . Apple Computer, Inc. Beginning October , , eight complaints were filed various United States District Courts and two complaints were filed California State Court alleging that the Company\x92 iPod nano was defectively designed that scratches excessively during normal use, rendering the screen unreadable. The federal actions were coordinated the United States District Court for the Northern District California and assigned the Hon. Ronald Whyte pursuant April , order the Judicial Panel Multidistrict Litigation. Plaintiffs filed First Consolidated and Amended Master Complaint September , , alleging violations California and other states\x92 consumer protection and warranty laws and claiming unjust enrichment. The Master Complaint alleges two putative plaintiff classes: ( ) all . residents (excluding California residents) who purchased iPod nano that was not manufactured designed using processes necessary ensure normal resistance scratching the screen; and ( ) all iPod nano purchasers other than . residents who purchased iPod nano that was not manufactured designed using processes necessary ensure normal resistance scratching the screen. The Company answered the Master Complaint November , . The two California State Court actions were coordinated May , , and assigned the Hon. Carl West Los Angeles County Superior Court. Plaintiffs filed Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint June , , alleging violations California state consumer protection, unfair competition, false advertising and warranty laws and claiming unjust enrichment. The Consolidated Complaint alleges putative plaintiff class all California residents who own iPod nano containing manufacturing defect that results the nano being susceptible excessive scratching. The Company answered the Consolidated Amended Complaint October , . The parties have reached settlement and April , , the Court granted final approval the settlement. May , , objector filed notice appeal. Individual Networks, LLC . Apple, Inc. Plaintiff filed this action against the Company April , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent . , , , entitled \x93Method and System for Providing Customized Media List.\x94 Plaintiff alleges certain features the iTunes store infringe the patent. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer July , , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment non-infringement and invalidity, well counterclaim against Individual Networks LLC for infringement . Patent . , , . The trial scheduled for November , . The Company has filed petition with the United States Patent and Trademark Office requesting reexamination . Patent . , , . The Markman hearing took place October , , and the Court issued its Markman ruling January , . The Company filed motion for summary judgment inequitable conduct April , , and filed motions for summary judgment invalidity and lack written description April , . The Company has also filed motion exclude portions plaintiff\x92 expert\x92 report and testimony regarding damages. Plaintiff has filed motion exclude damages testimony relating . Patent . , , . The Company has also filed motion for sanctions. Mediostream, Inc. . Acer America Corp. . Plaintiff filed this action against the Company, Acer America Corp., Dell, Inc. and Gateway, Inc. August , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent . , , , entitled \x93Method and System for Direct Recording Video Information onto Disk Medium.\x94 amended complaint was served November , . The amended complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. January , , the Company filed answer the complaint denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses and also filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California, which the Court denied. The Markman hearing set for August , and trial scheduled for January , . Nokia Corporation . Apple Inc. Plaintiff Nokia Corporation filed this action against the Company October , the United States District Court for the District Delaware, alleging infringement . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , . Patent . , , , and . Patent . , , . The complaint alleges that these patents are essential one more the GSM, UMTS and wireless communications standards, and that the Company has the right license these patents from plaintiff fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory (\x93FRAND\x94) terms and conditions. Plaintiff seeks unspecified FRAND compensation and other relief. The Company\x92 response the complaint not yet due. The Company intends defend the case vigorously. OPTi Inc. . Apple Inc. Plaintiff filed this action against the Company January , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement . Patent Nos. , , , , , and , , , all entitled \x93Predictive Snooping Cache Memory for Master-Initiated Accesses.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer April , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment non-infringement and invalidity. The Markman hearing took place November , and the Court issued its Markman ruling December , . April , , the Court ruled that the accused computers sold between and infringed the \x92 patent. trial regarding validity, damages and willfulness commenced April , . April , , the jury returned verdict that the patent was valid and willfully infringed, and awarded $ million damages. May , , plaintiff filed motion for entry judgment, including request for enhanced damages based the willfulness finding, seeking total $ million plus attorneys\x92 fees. The Company has opposed that motion and has filed its own motions for judgment matter law , alternatively, for new trial and remittitur, the issues validity, willfulness and damages. The Court has not entered judgment and has not set hearing dates for any the pending motions. Saito Shigeru Kenchiku Kenkyusho (Shigeru Saito Architecture Institute) . iPod; Apple Japan Inc. . Shigeru Saito Architecture Institute Plaintiff Saito filed petition the Japan Customs Office Tokyo January , alleging infringement the Company Japanese Patent . , entitled \x93Touch Operation Input Device and Electronic Parts Thereof.\x94 The petition sought order barring the importation into Japan fifth generation iPods and second generation iPod nanos. The Customs Office held hearing March , . The Customs Office rejected the petition bar importation and dismissed plaintiff\x92 case. Apple Japan, Inc. filed Declaratory Judgment action against Saito February , the Tokyo District Court, seeking declaration that the \x91 patent invalid and not infringed. Saito filed Counter Complaint for infringement seeking damages. Plaintiff filed motion add new accused products into the case, which the Court granted hearing June , . -Germain . Apple Canada, Inc. Plaintiff filed this case Montreal, Quebec, Canada, August , , seeking authorization institute class action for the refund the Company the Canadian Private Copying Levy that was applied the iPod purchase price Quebec between December , and December , but later declared invalid the Canadian Court. The Company has completed refund program for this levy. class certification hearing took place January , . February , , the Court granted class certification and notice was published during the last week March . The trial was conducted October and , . January , , the Court issued ruling plaintiff\x92 favor. The Court ruled that despite the Company\x92 good faith efforts with the levy refund program, the Company must pay the amount claimed, and that the class comprised , persons who purchased iPod Quebec between December , and December , . The Court ordered the Company submit statement account showing the amount received the Canadian Private Copying Collective, and the amount that has already been paid class members Quebec under the Company\x92 levy refund program. The Court also ordered the parties submit further briefing regarding the collective recovery award February , . February , , the Company filed appeal. hearing the appeal set for October , . The Apple iPod iTunes Antitrust Litigation (formerly Charoensak . Apple Computer, Inc. and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc.); Somers . Apple Inc. The first-listed action consolidated case combining two cases previously pending under the names Charoensak . Apple Computer Inc. (formerly Slattery . Apple Computer Inc.) and Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc . The original plaintiff (Slattery) the Charoensak case filed purported class action January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. Plaintiff\x92 complaint alleged violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business & Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), common law unjust enrichment and common law monopolization. Plaintiff sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss February , . September , , the Court denied the motion part and granted part. Plaintiff filed amended complaint September , and the Company filed answer October , . August , the Court dismissed Slattery without prejudice and allowed plaintiffs file amended complaint naming two new plaintiffs (Charoensak and Rosen). November , , the Company filed answer the amended complaint denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Tucker case was filed purported class action July , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music and videos purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and vice versa and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. The complaint alleges violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business & Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiff sought unspecified damages and other relief. November , , the Company filed motion dismiss the complaint. December , , the Court denied the motion dismiss. January , , the Company filed answer denying all material allegations and asserting numerous defenses. March , , the Court consolidated the two cases. Plaintiffs filed consolidated complaint April , . June , , the Company filed answer the consolidated complaint denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. July , , plaintiffs filed motion for class certification and October , , the Company filed its opposition plaintiffs\x92 motion. The class certification hearing took place December , . December , , the Court granted certification the monopolization claims and denied without prejudice certification the tying claims pending reconsideration its denial the Company\x92 motion dismiss. February , , the Company filed motion for judgment the pleadings plaintiffs\x92 tying claims. May , , the Court issued order granting the Company\x92 motion part, dismissing the federal per tying claim and related state court tying claims and inviting the Company file another motion for judgment the pleadings plaintiffs pursue rule reason tying claim. July , , the Court invited the Company file motion for reconsideration the certification injunctive-relief class motion strike plaintiffs\x92 prayer for the type injunctive relief sought. August , , the Company filed motion for judgment the pleadings the plaintiffs\x92 Rule Reason tying claim. August , , the Company filed motion seeking reconsideration and denial injunctive relief class. The Company also filed motion seeking decertification the Rule ( )( ) damages class alternatively for leave move for reconsideration. hearing the Company\x92 motion for judgment the pleadings plaintiffs\x92 Rule Reason tying claim took place October , . related complaint, Somers . Apple Inc ., was filed December , the United States District Court for the Northern District California behalf purported class indirect purchasers, alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music and videos purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and vice versa and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. The complaint alleges violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business & Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act and California monopolization law. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. February , , the Company filed answer denying all material allegations and asserting numerous defenses. February , , plaintiff filed motion for class certification and April , , the Company filed its opposition that motion. evidentiary hearing the class certification motion took place June , . July , , the Court denied certification plaintiff\x92 damage claims and deferred ruling certification plaintiff\x92 injunctive claims pending resolution the additional briefing requested the Court, which described above. Tse . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiff Keung Tse filed this action against the Company and other defendants August , the United States District Court for the District Maryland alleging infringement . Patent . , , entitled \x93Protection Software Again [sic] Against Unauthorized Use.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. October , , the Company and the other defendants filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California, which was granted August , . July , , the Company filed petition for reexamination the patent, which the . Patent and Trademark Office granted. July , , the Company filed motion stay the litigation pending the outcome the reexamination, which the Court granted October , . July , , the . Patent and Trademark Office issued final Office Action rejecting all asserted claims except for claim . September , , plaintiff filed Notice Appeal the Board Patent Appeals and Interferences from the final Office Action. The Court action remains stayed pending plaintiff\x92 appeal. Vitt . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action November , the United States District Court for the Central District California behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers the iBook alleging that the computer\x92 logic board fails abnormally high rate. The complaint alleges violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising). Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss January , , which the Court granted March , . Plaintiffs filed amended complaint March , . The Company filed motion dismiss August , , which was heard October , . The Court has not yet issued ruling. Vogel . Jobs . ( Action) Plaintiffs filed this purported class action August , , the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and certain the Company\x92 current and former officers and directors alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain defendants\x92 profits, failing properly account for those grants and issuing false financial statements. January , , the Court appointed the New York City Employees\x92 Retirement System lead plaintiff. March , , plaintiffs filed Consolidated Class Action Complaint. The Consolidated Complaint purports brought behalf several classes holders the Company\x92 stock and asserts claims under Section ( ) and ( ) the Exchange Act well state law. The Consolidated Complaint seeks rescission amendments various stock option and other incentive compensation plans, accounting and damages unspecified amount. Defendants filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard September , . November , , the Court issued order dismissing all securities claims with prejudice, and held that any amended complaint could only styled derivative case. December , , plaintiff filed motion for leave file first amended consolidated class action complaint. January , , defendants filed opposition plaintiff\x92 motion. Plaintiff\x92 motion was heard March , . May , , the Court issued order denying plaintiffs\x92 motion for leave amend. The court entered judgment dismissing the case June , . June , , plaintiffs filed notice appeal. hearing plaintiffs\x92 appeal took place October , . Vogel . Apple Inc., . ( Action) Plaintiff filed this purported class action June , , the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and certain the Company\x92 current and former officers and directors. The allegations, which arise out the Company\x92 past stock option practices, are similar those the Vogel . Jobs . action that was dismissed June , , described above. The complaint purports brought behalf several classes holders the Company\x92 stock and asserts claims under Sections ( ) and ( ) the Exchange Act. The complaint seeks rescission amendments various stock option and other incentive compensation plans, accounting and damages unspecified amount. July , , the Court stayed this case pending the appeal the Action. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders None. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company\x92 common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AAPL and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest sales prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market during each quarter the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Fiscal price range per common share $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ $ - $ Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company did not declare pay cash dividends either . The Company anticipates that for the foreseeable future will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Company Stock Performance The following graph shows five-year comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Composite Index and the & Computer Hardware Index. The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company\x92 common stock, the & Composite Index, and the & Computer Hardware Index September , . Data points the graph are annual. Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. September September September September September September Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & Composite Index $ $ $ $ $ $ & Computer Hardware Index $ $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September , , not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands and per share amounts). Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled \x93Risk Factors\x94 above, which are incorporated herein reference. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references this report particular years quarters refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers, mobile communication devices, and portable digital music and video players and sells variety related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company\x92 products and services include the Mac line desktop and portable computers, iPhone, the iPod line portable digital music and video players, Apple , Xserve, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Mac, iPhone and iPod compatible products, including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and peripherals through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumer, small and mid-sized business (\x93SMB\x94), education, enterprise, government, and creative markets. The Company focused providing innovative products and solutions consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative customers that greatly enhance their evolving digital lifestyles and work environments. The Company\x92 overall business strategy control the design and development the hardware and software for all its products, including the personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics devices. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating system, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical the development and enhancement innovative products and technologies. conjunction with its strategy, the Company continues build and host robust platform for the discovery and delivery third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. Most recently the Company launched the App Store that allows users browse, search for, and purchase third-party applications through either Mac Windows-based computer wirelessly downloading directly iPhone iPod touch. The Company also desires support community for the development third-party products that complement the Company\x92 offerings through its developer programs. The Company therefore uniquely positioned offer superior and well-integrated digital lifestyle and productivity solutions. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Mac line personal computers, mobile communications with iPhone, consumer electronics with its iPod product families, and distribution third-party digital content and applications through its online iTunes Store. While the Company widely recognized leading innovator the personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics markets well leader the emerging market for distribution digital content and applications, these markets are highly competitive and subject aggressive pricing. remain competitive, the Company believes that increased investment research and development and marketing and advertising necessary maintain expand its position the markets where competes. The Company\x92 research and development spending focused further developing its existing Mac line personal computers, its operating system, application software, iPhone and iPods; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas and technologies. The Company also believes increased investment marketing and advertising programs critical increasing product and brand awareness. The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available Mac computers, and demonstrate the compatibility the Mac with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues expand and improve its distribution capabilities opening its own retail stores the . and international markets. The Company had stores open September , . The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales, including the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which places Apple employees and contractors selected third-party reseller locations, and the Apple Premium Reseller Program, through which independently run businesses focus the Apple platform and provide high level customer service and product expertise. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers efficient way demonstrate the advantages its Mac computers and other products over those its competitors. The Company also sells customers directly through its online stores around the world and through its direct sales force. The Company distributes iPhone over countries, through its direct channels, its cellular network carriers\x92 distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. The Company has signed multi-year agreements with various cellular network carriers authorizing them distribute and provide cellular network services for iPhones. These agreements are generally not exclusive with specific carrier, except the ., Germany, Spain, Ireland and certain other countries. The Company\x92 iPods are sold through significant number distribution points provide broad access. iPods can purchased certain department stores, member-only warehouse stores, large retail chains and specialty retail stores, well through the channels for Mac distribution listed above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, valuation marketable securities, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, third-party digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue for software products (operating system software and applications software), any product that considered software-related, accordance with industry specific accounting guidance for software and software related transactions ( ., Mac computers, iPhones and iPod portable digital music and video players). For products that are not software software-related, ( ., third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store and certain Mac, iPhone and iPod supplies and accessories), the Company recognizes revenue pursuant various revenue-related GAAP described below. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers recognition revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable and all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. For both iPhone and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time- -time provide future unspecified features and additional software products free charge customers. Accordingly, iPhone handsets and Apple sales are accounted for under subscription accounting accordance with GAAP. such, the revenue and associated cost sales are deferred the time sale, and are both recognized straight-line basis over the currently estimated -month economic lives these products, with any loss recognized the time sale. the Company\x92 estimated economic life product accounted for under subscription accounting changes, the future rate which deferred revenue and deferred costs are recognized the Company\x92 results operations will change. Costs incurred the Company for engineering, sales, marketing and warranty are expensed incurred. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Company\x92 policy requires that, refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Management\x92 estimates are based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which would have negative impact the Company\x92 results operations. Valuation and Impairment Marketable Securities The Company\x92 investments available-for-sale securities are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related changes the fair value investments are included accumulated other comprehensive income, net tax, reported the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes the fair value investments impact the Company\x92 net income only when such investments are sold other-than-temporary impairment recognized. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are determined specific identification each security\x92 cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio determine any investment other-than-temporarily impaired due changes credit risk other potential valuation concerns, which would require the Company record impairment charge the period any such determination made. making this judgment, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent which the fair value investment less than its cost, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell, the investment before recovery the investment\x92 amortized cost basis. The Company\x92 assessment whether investment other-than-temporarily impaired not, could change the future due new developments changes assumptions related any particular investment. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors, cellular network carriers, and resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and enterprise customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit-risk-sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party financing arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\x92 assessment the ability collect specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit-worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believes collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors, including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\x92 distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\x92 financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit-worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect its results operations the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer, mobile communications and consumer electronics industries are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs, which would negatively affect its results operations the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company records accruals for estimated cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled are expected cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, the Company may required record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would negatively affect its results operations the period when the cancellation fees are identified and recorded. Warranty Costs The Company provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection and adjusts the amounts necessary. For products accounted for under subscription accounting, the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could materially affect the Company\x92 results operations. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and operating system software maintain the software\x92 compliance with specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty cost that recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with GAAP, the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes and measures uncertain tax positions accordance with GAAP, whereby the Company only recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that the Company determines all part the net deferred tax assets are not realizable the future, the Company will make adjustment the valuation allowance that would charged earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings\x94 and Note , \x93Commitments and Contingencies\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. accordance with GAAP, the Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable. There significant judgment required both the probability determination and whether exposure can reasonably estimated. management\x92 opinion, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. However, the outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company are subject significant uncertainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Net Sales Fiscal years , and spanned weeks. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. The following table summarizes net sales and Mac unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product during the three years ended September , ( millions, except unit sales thousands and per unit amounts): Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales , % , % , Retail net sales , % , % , Other Segments net sales ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Mac Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Mac unit sales , % , % , Europe Mac unit sales , % , % , Japan Mac unit sales % % Retail Mac unit sales , % , % , Other Segments Mac unit sales ( ) % % Total Mac unit sales , % , % , Net Sales Product: Desktops ( ) $ , ( )% $ , % $ , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac net sales , ( )% , % , iPod , ( )% , % , Other music related products and services ( ) , % , % , iPhone and related products and services ( ) , % , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , ( )% , % , Software, service and other sales ( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Desktops ( ) , ( )% , % , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Mac unit sales , % , % , Net sales per Mac unit sold ( ) $ , ( )% $ , \x97% $ , iPod unit sales , ( )% , % , Net sales per iPod unit sold ( ) $ ( )% $ % $ iPhone unit sales , % , , ( ) Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. ( ) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Derived from handset sales, carrier agreements, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes sales displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system and application software, third-party software, AppleCare and Internet services. ( ) Derived dividing total Mac net sales total Mac unit sales. ( ) Derived dividing total iPod net sales total iPod unit sales. = Not Meaningful Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased $ billion % compared . Several factors contributed positively these increases, including the following: \x95 iPhone revenue and net sales related products and services amounted $ billion , increase $ billion % compared . iPhone handset unit sales totaled million during , which represents increase million % during compared . This growth attributed primarily expanded distribution and strong overall demand for iPhones. iPhone 3GS was released the . June , and many other countries over the remainder . iPhone revenue includes the portion handset revenue recognized the relevant period accordance with subscription accounting over the product\x92 currently estimated -month economic life, well revenue from sales iPhone accessories and carrier agreements. The year-over-year iPhone revenue growth also largely attributable the year-over-year increase iPhone handset unit sales both and , which generated significant amounts deferred revenue that being recognized over the iPhone\x92 estimated economic life. \x95 Net sales other music-related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The increase was due predominantly increased net sales third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store, which experienced double-digit growth each the Company\x92 geographic segments during compared the same period . The Company believes this continued growth the result heightened consumer interest downloading third-party digital content and applications, continued growth its customer base iPod and iPhone customers, the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store, and the continued interest and growth the App Store. The Company continues expand its iTunes content and applications offerings around the world. Partially offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, net sales during were negatively impacted certain factors, including the following: \x95 Mac net sales declined % during compared , although Mac unit sales increased % over the same period. Net sales per Mac unit sold decreased % during compared , due primarily lower average selling prices across all Mac portable and desktop systems and stronger . dollar. Net sales Macs accounted for % the Company\x92 total net sales for . During , Mac portable systems net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, compared . This growth was driven strong demand for MacBook Pro, which was updated June and October , and experienced double digit net sales and unit growth each the Company\x92 reportable operating segments compared the same period . The Company also had higher product mix portable systems, which consistent with the overall market trends. However, net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Mac desktop systems decreased % and %, respectively, during compared . The decrease net sales Mac desktop systems was due mainly shift product mix towards lower-priced desktops, lower average selling prices across all Mac desktop systems and stronger . dollar. \x95 Net sales iPods decreased $ billion % during compared . iPod unit sales decreased slightly % during compared . Net sales per iPod unit sold decreased % $ compared , resulting from lower average selling prices across all the iPod product lines, which were due primarily price reductions taken with the introduction new iPods September and September and stronger . dollar, offset partially higher product mix iPod touch. Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased % $ billion from . Several factors contributed these increases including the following: \x95 Mac net sales increased $ billion % during compared , while Mac unit sales increased million units %. Net sales related the Company\x92 Mac shipments accounted for % the Company\x92 total net revenue. Higher Mac unit sales, which contributed the increases net sales, were driven higher sales all the Company\x92 Mac portable products well the popularity the iMac, which experienced strong growth net sales and unit sales all the Company\x92 reportable segments. Unit sales the Company\x92 Mac portable products accounted for % the Company\x92 personal computer shipments both and . Net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 Mac portable products both increased % during compared . This growth was attributable strong demand for all the Mac portable products, particularly the MacBook, which had double-digit growth all the Company\x92 operating segments, and the addition the MacBook Air, which was introduced the Company\x92 Mac portable product line January . Growth the Company\x92 Mac desktop systems was also strong, with increased net sales and unit sales % and %, respectively, during due primarily strong sales the iMac all the Company\x92 operating segments. \x95 Net sales iPods increased $ million % during compared whereas unit sales iPods increased % compared . The iPod unit growth was due strong demand for the iPod touch, and lesser extent, higher unit sales the iPod shuffle due price reduction February . iPod net sales grew faster than iPod unit sales due higher average selling prices caused shift overall iPod product mix the higher priced iPod touch. \x95 Net sales iPhone and related products and services were $ billion for , with iPhone handset unit sales totaling million. Net sales iPhone and related products and services were $ million , which represented sales for one fiscal quarter. iPhone revenue includes the portion handset revenue recognized the relevant period accordance with subscription accounting over the product\x92 currently estimated -month economic life, well revenue from sales iPhone accessories and from carrier agreements. \x95 Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared , due primarily significantly increased net sales from the iTunes Store each the Company\x92 geographic segments. The Company believes this success the result heightened consumer interest downloading third-party digital content, the expansion third-party audio and video content available for sale and rent via the iTunes Store, and the launch the iTunes App Store. The Company continues expand its iTunes content offerings around the world. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist the Americas, Europe, Japan and Retail. The Americas, Europe and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the . and international markets. Each reportable geographic operating segment and the Retail operating segment provide similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Americas During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion % compared . The increase net sales during was attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPhone revenue, higher sales third-party digital content and applications from the iTunes Store, and increased sales Mac portable systems, which were partially offset decrease sales Mac desktop systems and iPods. Americas Mac net sales decreased % due primarily lower average selling prices, while Mac unit sales increased % year-over-year basis. The increase Mac unit sales was due primarily strong demand for the MacBook Pro, which was updated June and October . The Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\x92 total net sales and , respectively. During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion % compared . The primary drivers this growth were the significant year-over-year increase sales the iPod touch, Mac portable systems, content from the iTunes Store, and iPhone. The Company began shipping iPhone June and the growth iPhone sales resulted from full year iPhone shipments well stronger demand for iPhones the fourth quarter . The increase Mac net sales $ billion % and Mac unit sales million % attributable growth sales all the Mac portable systems, particularly the MacBook, and higher sales the iMac. Net sales iPods increased due shift product mix toward higher priced iPods, particularly the iPod touch, which was upgraded June . , the Americas segment represented % the Company\x92 total net sales compared % the same period . Europe During , net sales Europe increased $ billion % compared . The increase net sales was due mainly increased iPhone revenue and Mac portable systems, offset partially lower net sales Mac desktop systems, iPods, and stronger . dollar. Mac unit sales increased % compared , which was driven primarily increased sales Mac portable systems, particularly MacBook Pro, while total Mac net sales declined result lower average selling prices across all Mac products. Although iPod net sales decreased Europe year-over-year result lower average selling prices, iPod unit sales increased due iPod touch and market share increases. The Europe segment represented % and % total net sales and , respectively. Europe\x92 net sales and Mac unit sales increased % and %, respectively, during compared . The main drivers this growth were strong sales Mac portable systems and iMac, increased sales from the iTunes Store, and iPhone. Also contributing the increase net sales were higher iPod net sales due primarily the iPod touch, which was upgraded June . Sales Mac portable products increased due stronger demand for the MacBook Pro and the MacBook, both updated February , well sales the MacBook Air, introduced January . Mac desktop sales also increased due primarily the popularity the iMac, which was updated April . The Europe segment represented % total net sales , consistent with . Japan Japan\x92 net sales increased $ million % compared . The key contributors this growth were increased iPhone revenue, stronger demand for certain Mac portable systems and iPods, and strength the Japanese Yen, partially offset decreased sales Mac desktop systems. Net sales and unit sales Mac portable systems increased during compared , driven primarily stronger demand for MacBook Pro, which was updated June and October . Net sales and unit sales iPods increased during compared , driven strong demand for iPod touch and iPod nano. Japan net sales increased $ million % compared . The primary contributors the growth net sales were increases sales iPods, iMac, Mac portable systems, and strong sales from the iTunes Store. Net sales, unit sales and the average selling price iPods increased during compared , driven strong demand for iPod touch and iPod nano. Additionally, Mac net sales and unit sales grew % and %, respectively, compared due increases sales iMac and Mac portable systems, particularly MacBook, well the introduction MacBook Air January . Retail Retail net sales increased $ million % during compared . The growth net sales was driven largely increased iPhone revenue and Mac portable systems, offset partially decrease sales iPods and Mac desktop systems. The Company opened new retail stores during , including total international stores, ending the year with stores open. This compares stores open September , and open stores September , . The year-over-year growth rate Retail net sales was less than the increase the average number stores open during the same period, which the Company believes reflects the challenging consumer-spending environment and continued third-party channel expansion, particularly the . where most its stores are located. With average stores and stores opened during and , respectively, average revenue per store decreased $ million for from $ million . The Retail segment\x92 net sales grew % during compared , due large part increased sales Mac portable and desktop systems, strong demand for the iPhone and iPod touch, and new store openings. The Company opened new retail stores during , bringing the total number open stores September , . This compares open stores September , . With average stores and stores opened during and , respectively, average revenue per store increased $ million for from $ million . measured the Company\x92 operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported operating income $ billion during , compared operating income $ billion and $ million during and , respectively. This increase operating income was driven increased total Retail net sales attributable % increase average stores open and higher gross margin percentage consistent with that experienced Company-wide. The Retail segment\x92 operating income increased $ million during compared due primarily the significant Retail net sales growth % compared . Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital asset purchases associated with the Retail segment were $ million , bringing the total capital asset purchases since inception the Retail segment $ billion. September , , the Retail segment had approximately , full-time equivalent employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities $ billion. The Company would incur substantial costs were close multiple retail stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Other Segments The Company\x92 Other Segments, which consist its Asia Pacific and FileMaker operations, experienced increase net sales $ million, %, during compared reflecting strong growth sales iPhone and Mac portable systems offset partially decline sales related iPods and Mac desktop systems the Asia Pacific region, well strengthening the . dollar against the Australian dollar and other Asian currencies. Mac net sales and unit sales grew the Asia Pacific region % and %, respectively, due increased sales the MacBook Pro. The Company\x92 Other Segments experienced increase net sales $ million, % during compared . These increases are related primarily strong growth sales all Mac portable systems, iPods, the iMac, and content from the iTunes Store the Company\x92 Asia Pacific region. Sales from the iTunes Store the Company\x92 Asia Pacific region grew % compared . Gross Margin Gross margin for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % The gross margin percentage was % compared % . The primary drivers the increase compared were significantly lower commodity and other product costs and favorable sales mix toward products with higher gross margins, which were partially offset product price reductions. Gross margin percentage was relatively flat compared . The Company expects its gross margin percentage decrease future periods compared levels achieved during and anticipates gross margin levels about % the first quarter . This expected decline due largely the anticipated impact product transitions, flat reduced pricing new and innovative products that have higher cost structures, and both expected and potential future cost increases for key components. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking and could differ from anticipated levels because several factors, including but not limited certain those set forth below Part , Item , \x93Risk Factors\x94 under the subheading \x93 Future operating results depend upon the Company\x92 ability obtain key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable prices and sufficient quantities ,\x94 which incorporated herein reference. There can assurance that targeted gross margin percentage levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions and expected increases the cost key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (\x93DRAM\x94) and liquid crystal displays (\x93LCDs\x94), well potential increases the costs outside manufacturing services and potential shift the Company\x92 sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. response these competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): Research and development $ , $ , $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Research and Development (\x93 & \x94) & expenditures increased % $ million $ billion compared . These increases were due primarily increase headcount and higher stock-based compensation expenses the current year support expanded & activities. addition, $ million software development costs were capitalized related Mac Snow Leopard and excluded from & expense during , compared $ million software development costs capitalized during . Although total & expense increased % during , remained relatively flat percentage net sales given the % increase revenue . The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. such, the Company expects make further investments & remain competitive. Expenditures for & increased % $ million $ billion compared . These increases were due primarily increase headcount and higher stock-based compensation expenses. , $ million software development costs were capitalized related Mac Snow Leopard and excluded from & expense, while & expense for excluded $ million capitalized software development costs related Mac Leopard and iPhone software. Although total & expense increased % during , remained relatively flat percentage net sales given the % increase revenue during . Selling, General and Administrative Expense (\x93 & \x94) & expenditures increased $ million % $ billion compared . These increases are due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, higher stock-based compensation expenses and higher spending marketing and advertising. Expenditures for & increased $ million % $ billion compared . These increases are due primarily higher stock-based compensation expenses, higher variable selling expenses resulting from the significant year-over-year increase total net sales and the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets. addition, the Company incurred higher spending marketing and advertising during compared . Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions): Interest income $ $ $ Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total other income and expense $ $ $ Total other income and expense decreased $ million % $ million during compared $ million and $ million and , respectively. The overall decrease other income and expense attributable the significant decline interest rates during compared and , partially offset the Company\x92 higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was %, % and % during , and , respectively. During , and , the Company had debt outstanding and accordingly did not incur any related interest expense. The Company\x92 investment portfolio had gross unrealized losses $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively, which were offset gross unrealized gains $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The net unrealized gains September , and the net unrealized losses September , related primarily long-term marketable securities. The Company considers the declines market value its marketable securities investment portfolio temporary nature. The unrealized losses the Company\x92 marketable securities were caused primarily changes market interest rates, specifically widening credit spreads. The Company does not have the intent sell, nor more likely than not the Company will required sell, any investment before recovery its amortized cost basis. Accordingly, material declines fair value were recognized the Company\x92 Consolidated Statements Operations during , and . The Company may sell certain its marketable securities prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized material net gains losses during , and related such sales. Provision for Income Taxes The Company\x92 effective tax rates were %, % and % for , and , respectively. The Company\x92 effective rates for these periods differ from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ billion before being offset against certain deferred liabilities $ billion for presentation the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) has completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company has contested certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. All IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. addition, the Company subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Recent Accounting Pronouncements September , the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (\x93FASB\x94) amended the Accounting Standards Codification (\x93ASC\x94) summarized Accounting Standards Update (\x93ASU\x94) - , Software (Topic ): Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements , and ASU - , Revenue Recognition (Topic ): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements . summarized ASU - , ASC Topic has been amended remove from the scope industry specific revenue accounting guidance for software and software related transactions, tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together deliver the product\x92 essential functionality. summarized ASU - , ASC Topic has been amended ( ) provide updated guidance whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables arrangement should separated, and the consideration allocated; ( ) require entity allocate revenue arrangement using estimated selling prices deliverables vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94) third-party evidence selling price; and ( ) eliminate the use the residual method and require entity allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. The accounting changes summarized ASU - and ASU - are both effective for fiscal years beginning after June , , with early adoption permitted. Adoption may either prospective basis retrospective application. The Company currently assessing the impact these amendments the ASC its accounting and reporting systems and processes; however, this time the Company unable quantify the impact its financial statements its adoption determine the timing and method its adoption. September , , total iPhone and Apple deferred revenue and deferred costs were $ billion and $ billion, respectively. The Company believes that application these amendments will result substantial portion the revenue associated with the sale iPhone and Apple and all related cost sales being recognized the time sale. Currently revenue and associated cost sales for these products are deferred the time sale and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the currently estimated -month economic life the products. During the first quarter , the Company adopted FASB ASC , Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (formerly referenced Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Fair Value Measurements ) , which defines fair value, provides framework for measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements. February , the FASB issued supplemental guidance that delays the effective date this new fair value accounting standard fiscal years beginning after November , for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for items that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis ( least annually) and will adopted the Company beginning the first quarter . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application this accounting standard, management does not currently believe adoption this accounting pronouncement will have material impact the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. December , the FASB issued FASB ASC , Business Combinations (formerly referenced SFAS . (revised ), Business Combinations ), which establishes principles and requirements for how acquirer recognizes and measures its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest the acquiree business combination. This new accounting standard also establishes principles regarding how goodwill acquired business combination gain from bargain purchase should recognized and measured, well provides guidelines the disclosure requirements the nature and financial impact the business combination. April , the FASB amended this new accounting standard require that assets acquired and liabilities assumed business combination that arise from contingencies recognized fair value, the fair value can determined during the measurement period. This new business combination accounting standard effective for fiscal years beginning after December , and will adopted the Company beginning the first quarter and will apply prospectively any business combinations completed after that date. The effect adoption this new accounting pronouncement the Company\x92 financial condition operating results will depend the nature acquisitions completed after the date adoption. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics and for the three years ended September , ( millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ , $ , $ , Inventories $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Annual operating cash flow $ , $ , $ , September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, increase $ billion from September , . The principal component this net increase was the cash generated operating activities $ billion, which was partially offset payments for acquisitions property, plant and equipment $ billion. The Company\x92 cash generated operating activities significantly exceeded its net income due primarily the increase deferred revenue, net deferred costs, associated with subscription accounting for iPhone. The Company\x92 marketable securities investment portfolio invested primarily highly rated securities, generally with minimum rating single- equivalent. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Capital Assets The Company\x92 cash payments for capital asset purchases were $ billion during , consisting $ million for retail store facilities and $ million for real estate acquisitions and corporate infrastructure including information systems enhancements. The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $ billion for capital asset purchases during , including approximately $ million for Retail facilities and approximately $ billion for corporate facilities, infrastructure, and product tooling and manufacturing process equipment. Historically the Company has opened between and new retail stores per year. During , the Company expects open number new stores near the upper end this range, over half which are expected located outside the . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheet current liabilities ( millions): Total Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Operating leases $ , $ $ $ $ Purchase obligations , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset retirement obligations Other obligations \x97 Total $ , $ , $ $ $ Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases $ billion, $ billion which related the lease retail space and related facilities. The Company\x92 major facility leases are generally for terms one years and generally provide renewal options for terms one five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms five years, the majority which are for ten years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. addition, the Company has off-balance sheet warranty obligation for products accounted for under subscription accounting whereby the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. September , , the Company had outstanding off-balance sheet third-party manufacturing commitments, component purchase commitments and estimated warranty commitments $ billion. The Company has entered into prepaid long-term supply agreements secure the supply certain inventory components. During the first quarter , long-term supply agreement with Intel Corporation was terminated and the remaining prepaid balance $ million was repaid the Company. During the second and fourth quarters , the Company made prepayment $ million Display for the purchase LCD panels and prepayment $ million Toshiba purchase NAND flash memory, respectively. September , , the Company had total $ billion inventory component prepayments outstanding. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company\x92 asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. September , , the Company estimated that gross expected future cash flows $ million would required fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations Other outstanding obligations were $ million September , , which related advertising, research and development, Internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. September , , the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits $ million and additional $ million for gross interest and penalties classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company believes reasonably possible that tax audit resolutions could reduce its unrecognized tax benefits between $ million and $ million the next months. this time, the Company unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments individual years due uncertainties the timing tax audit outcomes; therefore, such amounts are not included the above contractual obligation table. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not materially adversely affected the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\x92 leading industrialized countries, the Company\x92 interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. such, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, the fair value those investments, well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\x92 investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting the liquidity requirements the Company. portion the Company\x92 cash managed external managers within the guidelines the Company\x92 investment policy and objective market benchmarks. The Company\x92 internal portfolio benchmarked against external manager performance. The Company\x92 exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio. The Company typically invests highly rated securities and its policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 investment policy requires investments investment grade, primarily rated single- better with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. All highly liquid investments with initial maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company classifies its marketable securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date. All short-term marketable securities have maturities less than months, while all long-term marketable securities have maturities ranging from one five years. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized material net gains losses during , and related such sales. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its material foreign exchange exposures, typically for three six months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited immateriality, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (\x93VAR\x94) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate , random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , , Inventories Deferred tax assets , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Long-term marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Goodwill Acquired intangible assets, net Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Deferred revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Deferred revenue - non-current , , Other non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Three years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are reflected thousands) Common Stock Retained Earnings Accum- ulated Other Compre- hensive Income Total Share- holders\x92 Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , $ , $ , $ $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized loss available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) \x97 Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , , , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 , , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income , Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) \x97 Issuance common stock connection with asset acquisition \x97 \x97 Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , , , , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative instruments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income , Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) \x97 Tax benefit from employee stock plan awards, including transfer pricing adjustments \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Balances September , , $ , $ , $ $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Three years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock-based compensation expense Deferred income tax (benefit)/expense ( ) ( ) Loss disposition property, plant and equipment Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other assets ( , ) ( ) Accounts payable , Deferred revenue , , , Other liabilities ( ) , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing Activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Purchases other long-term investments ( ) ( ) ( ) Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net cash acquired \x97 ( ) \x97 Payment for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Payment for acquisition intangible assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing Activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Cash used net share settle equity awards ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated financing activities , (Decrease)/increase cash and cash equivalents ( , ) , , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x96 Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively \x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) design, manufacture, and market personal computers, mobile communication devices, and portable digital music and video players and sell variety related software, third-party digital content and applications, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh (\x93Mac\x94), iPhone and iPod compatible products including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells consumer, small and mid-sized business (\x93SMB\x94), education, enterprise, government and creative customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (\x93GAAP\x94) requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year\x92 presentation. During the first quarter , the Company reclassified $ billion certain fixed-income securities from short-term marketable securities long-term marketable securities the September , Consolidated Balance Sheet. The reclassification resulted from change accounting presentation for certain investments based contractual maturity dates, which more closely reflects the Company\x92 assessment the timing when such securities will converted cash. result this change, marketable securities with maturities less than months are classified short-term and marketable securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. There have been changes the Company\x92 investment policies practices associated with this change accounting presentation. See Note , \x93Financial Instruments\x94 this Form - for additional information. The Company\x92 fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company\x92 fiscal years , and ended September , , September , and September , , respectively, and included weeks each. additional week included the first fiscal quarter approximately every six years realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years quarters refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. May , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) established general accounting standards and disclosure for subsequent events. The Company adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification (\x93ASC\x94) , Subsequent Events (formerly referenced Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Subsequent Events ), during the third quarter . The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date and time the financial statements were issued October , . Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company\x92 debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt securities the time purchase and reevaluates the available-for-sale designations each balance sheet date. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date. Marketable securities with maturities less than months are classified short-term and marketable securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\x92 equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments During the second quarter , the Company adopted FASB ASC , Derivatives and Hedging (formerly referenced SFAS . , Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities \x96 amendment FASB Statement . ), which requires additional disclosures about the Company\x92 objectives and strategies for using derivative instruments, how the derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for, and how the derivative instruments and related hedged item affect the financial statements. The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not defined hedges must adjusted fair value through earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument recognized current earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For options designated cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The Company did not have net gain loss these derivative instruments during , and . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward exchange contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. Fair Value Measurements During the first quarter , the Company adopted FASB ASC , Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (formerly referenced SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements ), which defines fair value, establishes guidelines for measuring fair value and expands disclosures regarding fair value measurements. This new accounting standard does not require any new fair value measurements. The Company applies fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such inherent risk, transfer restrictions and credit risk. During the first quarter , the Company adopted FASB ASC , Financial Instruments (formerly referenced SFAS . , The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities \x96 Including amendment FASB Statement . ) , which allows companies choose measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items fair value that are not required measured fair value. The Company has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. The Company\x92 inventories consist primarily finished goods for all periods presented. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, five years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms ten years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from three five years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ million, $ million and $ million during , and , respectively. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company records obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The Company reviews legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. determined that legal obligation exists, the fair value the liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow and its present value accreted over the life the related lease operating expense. All the Company\x92 existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The Company\x92 asset retirement liability was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amounts future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. The Company did not record any material impairments during , and . The Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, rather such assets are required tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the assets may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests about August each year. The Company did not recognize any goodwill intangible asset impairment charges , and . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from one ten years. Foreign Currency Translation and Remeasurement The Company translates the assets and liabilities its non- . dollar functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation included accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these remeasurements were insignificant and have been included the Company\x92 results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, peripherals, and service and support contracts. For any product within these groups that either software, considered software-related ( ., Mac computers, iPhones and iPod portable digital music and video players), the Company accounts for such products accordance with the specific industry accounting guidance for software and software related transactions. The Company applies various revenue-related GAAP for products that are not software software-related, such digital content sold the iTunes Store and certain Mac, iPhone and iPod supplies and accessories, which described below. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable and all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Revenue from service and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the service coverage periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the service coverage offered under the Company\x92 standard limited warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company generally establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company generally recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies based the gross amount billed. The Company accounts for multiple element arrangements that consist only software software-related products accordance with industry specific accounting guidance for software and software related transactions. multiple-element arrangement includes deliverables that are neither software nor software-related, the Company applies various revenue-related GAAP determine those deliverables constitute separate units accounting from the software software-related deliverables. the Company can separate the deliverables, the Company applies the industry specific accounting guidance the software and software-related deliverables and applies other appropriate guidance the non-software related deliverables. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software and services allocated each element based the relative fair value each element. Each element\x92 allocated revenue recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for that element have been met. Fair value generally determined vendor specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94), which based the price charged when each element sold separately. the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value any undelivered element included multiple-element arrangement, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, until fair value can objectively determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value delivered element has not been established, but fair value exists for the undelivered elements, the Company uses the residual method recognize revenue the fair value all undelivered elements determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value the undelivered elements deferred and the remaining portion the arrangement fee allocated the delivered elements and recognized revenue. For both iPhone and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time- -time provide future unspecified features and additional software products free charge customers. Accordingly, iPhone handsets and Apple sales are accounted for under subscription accounting accordance with GAAP. such, the revenue and associated cost sales are deferred the time sale, and are both recognized straight-line basis over the currently estimated -month economic life these products, with any loss recognized the time sale. Costs incurred the Company for engineering, sales, marketing and warranty are expensed incurred. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Revenue recorded net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. When the Company does offer specified upgrade rights, the Company defers revenue for the fair value the specified upgrade right until the future obligation fulfilled the right the specified upgrade expires. limited number the Company\x92 software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\x92 ability pay. Shipping Costs For all periods presented, amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are included cost sales. Warranty Expense The Company generally provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. For products accounted for under subscription accounting, the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally most software development costs have been expensed. and , the Company capitalized $ million and $ million, respectively, costs associated with the development Mac Version Snow Leopard (\x93Mac Snow Leopard\x94), which was released during the fourth quarter . During , the Company capitalized $ million costs associated with the development Mac Version Leopard (\x93Mac Leopard\x94) and iPhone software. The capitalized costs are being amortized cost sales straight-line basis over three year estimated useful life the underlying technology. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based payment transactions which the Company receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. Stock-based compensation cost for restricted stock units (\x93RSUs\x94) measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Stock-based compensation cost for stock options estimated the grant date based each option\x92 fair-value calculated the Black-Scholes-Merton (\x93BSM\x94) option-pricing model. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost expense ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company will recognize benefit from stock-based compensation equity incremental tax benefit realized following the ordering provisions the tax law. addition, the Company accounts for the indirect effects stock-based compensation the research tax credit, the foreign tax credit and the domestic manufacturing deduction through the income statement. Further information regarding stock-based compensation can found Note , \x93Shareholders\x92 Equity and Stock-Based Compensation.\x94 Income Taxes The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. During , the Company adopted FASB Accounting Standards Codification (\x93ASC\x94) , Income Taxes (formerly referenced FASB Financial Interpretation . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . ) , which changed the framework for accounting for uncertainty income taxes. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon settlement. See Note , \x93Income Taxes\x94 for additional information, including the effects adoption the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the potentially dilutive securities had been issued. Potentially dilutive securities include outstanding stock options, shares purchased under the employee stock purchase plan and unvested RSUs. The dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities reflected diluted earnings per common share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per common share for the three years ended September , ( thousands, except net income millions and per share amounts): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average shares diluted , , , Basic earnings per common share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per common share $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities representing million, million and million shares common stock for , and , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under GAAP are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. Information about the Company\x92 products, major customers and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. Note \x96 Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities held its marketable securities investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term long-term marketable securities September , and September , ( millions): September , September , Cash $ , $ Money market funds , , . Treasury securities . agency securities , Certificates deposit and time deposits , Commercial paper , , Corporate securities \x97 Municipal securities \x97 Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury securities , . agency securities , , Non- . government securities Certificates deposit and time deposits , Commercial paper , , Corporate securities , , Municipal securities \x97 Total short-term marketable securities , , . Treasury securities . agency securities , Non- . government securities \x97 Certificates deposit and time deposits \x97 Corporate securities , , Municipal securities \x97 Total long-term marketable securities , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , During the first quarter , the Company changed its accounting presentation for certain fixed-income investments, which resulted the reclassification certain investments from short-term marketable securities long-term marketable securities. result, prior year balances have been reclassified conform the current year\x92 presentation. The Company classifies its marketable securities either short-term long-term based each instrument\x92 underlying contractual maturity date, while its prior classifications were based the nature the securities and their availability for use current operations. result this change, marketable securities with maturities less than months are classified short-term and marketable securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. The Company\x92 long-term marketable securities\x92 maturities range from one year five years. The Company believes this new presentation preferable more closely reflects the Company\x92 assessment the timing when such securities will converted cash. Accordingly, certain fixed-income investments totaling $ billion have been reclassified from short-term marketable securities long-term marketable securities the September , Consolidated Balance Sheet conform the current year\x92 financial statement presentation. There have been changes the Company\x92 investment policies practices associated with this change accounting presentation. The following tables summarize the Company\x92 available-for-sale securities\x92 adjusted cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value significant investment category September , and September , ( millions): September , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Money market funds $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , . Treasury securities , \x97 , . agency securities , \x97 , Non- . government securities \x97 Certificates deposit and time deposits , \x97 \x97 , Commercial paper , \x97 \x97 , Corporate securities , ( ) , Municipal securities \x97 Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ $ ( ) $ , September , Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Money market funds $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , . Treasury securities \x97 . agency securities , ( ) , Non- . government securities \x97 \x97 Certificates deposit and time deposits , \x97 \x97 , Commercial paper , \x97 \x97 , Corporate securities , \x97 ( ) , Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ $ ( ) $ , The Company had net unrealized gains its investment portfolio $ million September , and net unrealized losses its investment portfolio $ million September , . The net unrealized gains September , and the net unrealized losses September , related primarily long-term marketable securities. The Company may sell certain its marketable securities prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, for duration management. The Company recognized material net gains losses during , and related such sales. The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value for investments unrealized loss position September , and September , , aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): September , Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Loss Corporate securities $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) September , Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Loss . agency securities $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) Corporate securities , ( ) , ( ) , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) The Company considers the declines market value its marketable securities investment portfolio temporary nature. The unrealized losses the Company\x92 marketable securities were caused primarily changes market interest rates, specifically, widening credit spreads. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 investment policy requires investments investment grade, primarily rated single- better, with the objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, and the Company\x92 intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell, the investment before recovery the investment\x92 amortized cost basis. During the years ended September , and September , , the Company did not recognize any material impairment charges. September , , the Company does not consider any its investments other-than-temporarily impaired. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign currency exchange risk. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset some the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales, net investments certain foreign subsidiaries, and certain existing assets and liabilities. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, certain the Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency the . dollar, hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue. The Company\x92 subsidiaries whose functional currency not the . dollar and who sell local currencies, may hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currencies. The Company typically hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases for three six months. help protect the net investment foreign operation from adverse changes foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the changes the carrying amounts these investments due fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign currency exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited immateriality, accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign currency exchange rates. The Company\x92 accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The effective portions cash flow hedges are recorded other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. The effective portions net investment hedges are recorded other comprehensive income part the cumulative translation adjustment. Derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments and the ineffective portions cash flow hedges and net investment hedges are adjusted fair value through earnings other income and expense. The Company had net deferred gain associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million and $ million, net taxes, recorded other comprehensive income September , and September , , respectively. Other comprehensive income associated with cash flow hedges foreign currency revenue recognized component net sales the same period the related revenue recognized, and other comprehensive income related cash flow hedges inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. The portion the Company\x92 net deferred gain related products under subscription accounting expected recorded earnings ratably over the related products\x92 estimated economic lives beginning when the hedged transactions occur, while the portion the net deferred gain related other products expected recorded earnings the time the hedged transactions occur. September , , the hedged transactions are expected occur within six months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent two month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified immediately into earnings through other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments also are reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company did not recognize any material net gains losses related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges during , and . The Company had unrealized net loss net investment hedges $ million and $ million, net taxes, included the cumulative translation adjustment account accumulated other comprehensive income (\x93AOCI\x94) September , and September , , respectively. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness test net investment hedges are recorded current earnings other income and expense. The Company recognized earnings net gain $ million foreign currency forward and option contracts not designated hedging instruments during the year ended September , . The following table shows the notional principal and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 derivative instruments outstanding September , and September , ( millions): Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Credit Risk Amounts Instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ Instruments other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding September , , and not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\x92 gross exposure these transactions may further mitigated collateral received from certain counterparties. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. Although the table above reflects the notional principal and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received when the net fair value certain financial instruments exceeds contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities their gross fair values. The Company did not record material amount cash collateral related the derivative instruments under its master netting arrangements September , . The Company did not have any derivative instruments with credit risk-related contingent features that would require post additional collateral September , . The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models and prevailing financial market information September , . Refer Note , \x93Fair Value Measurements\x94 this Form - , for additional information the fair value measurements for all financial assets and liabilities, including derivative assets and derivative liabilities, that are measured fair value the consolidated financial statements recurring basis. The following tables shows the Company\x92 derivative instruments measured gross fair value reflected the Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , ( millions): September , Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ September , Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Derivative liabilities ( ): Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ ( ) All derivative assets are recorded other current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) All derivative liabilities are recorded accrued expenses the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table shows the effect the Company\x92 derivative instruments designated cash flow and net investment hedges the Consolidated Statements Operations for the year ended September , ( millions): Year Ended September , Gain (Loss) Recognized AOCI - Effective Portion ( ) Location Gain (Loss) Reclassified from AOCI into Income - Effective Portion Gain (Loss) Reclassified from AOCI into Income - Effective Portion ( ) Location Gain (Loss) Recognized - Ineffective Portion and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing Gain (Loss) Recognized - Ineffective Portion and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ Net sales $ Other income and expense $ ( ) Foreign exchange contracts Cost sales Other income and expense ( ) Net investment hedges: Foreign exchange contracts ( ) Other income and expense \x97 Other income and expense Total $ $ $ ( ) ( ) Refer Note , \x93Shareholders\x92 Equity and Stock-Based Compensation\x94 this Form - , which summarizes the activity accumulated other comprehensive income related derivatives. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors, cellular network carriers, and resellers and directly certain education, consumer and enterprise customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables not covered collateral, third-party financing arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. Trade receivables from one the Company\x92 customers accounted for % trade receivables September , and two the Company\x92 customers accounted for % and %, respectively, trade receivables September , . The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts for the three years ended September , ( millions): Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the Consolidated Balance Sheets other current assets, totaled $ billion and $ billion September , and September , , respectively. Vendor non-trade receivables from two the Company\x92 vendors accounted for % and %, respectively, non-trade receivables September , and two the Company\x92 vendors accounted for % and %, respectively, non-trade receivables September , . The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the related products are sold the Company, which time any profit recognized reduction cost sales. Note \x96 Fair Value Measurements The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such inherent risk, transfer restrictions and credit risk. The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level \x96 Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level \x96 Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level \x96 Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\x92 estimates assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. The Company\x92 valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and certain marketable equity securities were derived from quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value all other financial instruments, all which have counterparties with high credit ratings, were valued based quoted market prices model driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. Assets Liabilities Measured Fair Value Recurring Basis The following table presents the Company\x92 assets and liabilities measured fair value recurring basis September , ( millions): September , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Instruments (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Total ( ) Assets: Money market funds $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , . Treasury securities \x97 , \x97 , . agency securities \x97 , \x97 , Non- . government securities \x97 \x97 Certificates deposit and time deposits \x97 , \x97 , Commercial paper \x97 , \x97 , Corporate securities \x97 , \x97 , Municipal securities \x97 \x97 Marketable equity securities \x97 \x97 Derivative assets \x97 \x97 Total assets measured fair value $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Liabilities: Derivative liabilities $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Total liabilities measured fair value $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ ( ) The total fair value amounts for assets and liabilities also represent the related carrying amounts. The following table summarizes the Company\x92 assets and liabilities measured fair value recurring basis presented the Company\x92 Consolidated Balance Sheet September , ( millions): September , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Instruments (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Total ( ) Assets: Cash equivalents $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Short-term marketable securities \x97 , \x97 , Long-term marketable securities \x97 , \x97 , Other current assets \x97 \x97 Other assets \x97 \x97 Total assets measured fair value $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Liabilities: Other current liabilities $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Total liabilities measured fair value $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ ( ) The total fair value amounts for assets and liabilities also represent the related carrying amounts. Note \x96 Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company\x92 consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Other Current Assets Deferred costs under subscription accounting - current $ , $ , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Inventory component prepayments - current Other current assets , , Total other current assets $ , $ , Property, Plant and Equipment Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Net property, plant and equipment $ , $ , Other Assets Deferred costs under subscription accounting - non-current $ , $ , Inventory component prepayments - non-current Deferred tax assets - non-current Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ , $ , Accrued Expenses Income taxes payable $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Deferred margin component sales Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities , , Total accrued expenses $ , $ , Non-Current Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities $ $ Other non-current liabilities , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Note \x96 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from one ten years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances September , and September , ( millions): Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Definite lived and amortizable acquired technology $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Indefinite lived and unamortizable trademarks \x97 \x97 Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Goodwill $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ , the Company completed acquisition business for total cash consideration, net cash acquired, $ million, which $ million has been allocated goodwill, $ million deferred tax assets and $ million acquired intangible assets. The Company\x92 goodwill allocated primarily the America\x92 reportable operating segment. Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. September , and September , , the remaining weighted-average amortization period for acquired technology was years and years, respectively. Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology September , , follows ( millions): Years $ Thereafter Total $ Note \x96 Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for the three years ended September , , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred ( ) ( ) , , , State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion, respectively, the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\x92 foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ , $ , Basis capital assets and investments Accounts receivable and inventory reserves Other Total deferred tax assets , , Less valuation allowance \x97 \x97 Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities - Unremitted earnings foreign subsidiaries , , Net deferred tax assets $ , $ reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company\x92 income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For stock options, the Company receives income tax benefit calculated the difference between the fair market value the stock issued the time the exercise and the option price, tax effected. The Company had net tax benefits from employee stock plan awards $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively, which were reflected increases common stock. October , , the Tax Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act was signed into law. This bill, among other things, retroactively extended the expired research and development tax credit. result, the Company recorded tax benefit $ million the first quarter account for the retroactive effects the research credit extension. Uncertain Tax Positions discussed Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies\x94 the Company adopted new accounting principles accounting for uncertain tax positions . Under these new principles, tax positions are evaluated two-step process. The Company first determines whether more likely than not that tax position will sustained upon examination. tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold then measured determine the amount benefit recognize the financial statements. The tax position measured the largest amount benefit that greater than percent likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. Upon adoption these new principles, the Company\x92 cumulative effect change accounting principle resulted increase retained earnings $ million. The Company had historically classified interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits current liabilities. Beginning with the adoption these new principles, the Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not expected result payment receipt cash within one year non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits the date adoption was $ million, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. The Company\x92 total gross unrecognized tax benefits are classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ million, which $ million, recognized, would affect the Company\x92 effective tax rate. May , , the United States Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued its ruling the case Xilinx, Inc. . Commissioner , holding that stock-based compensation required included certain transfer pricing arrangements between . company and its offshore subsidiary. result the ruling this case, the Company increased its liability for unrecognized tax benefits approximately $ million and decreased shareholders\x92 equity approximately $ million the year ended September , . The aggregate changes the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for the two years ended September , , follows ( millions): Balance September , $ Increases related tax positions taken during prior period Decreases related tax positions taken during prior period ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current period Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities \x97 Decreases related expiration statute limitations ( ) Balance September , Increases related tax positions taken during prior period Decreases related tax positions taken during prior period ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current period Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities \x97 Decreases related expiration statute limitations ( ) Balance September , $ The Company\x92 policy include interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes did not change result adopting the new accounting principles accounting for uncertain tax positions . the date adoption, the Company had accrued $ million for the gross interest and penalties relating unrecognized tax benefits. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ million and $ million, respectively, which classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. and , the Company recognized interest expense connection with tax matters $ million and $ million, respectively. The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. For . federal income tax purposes, all years prior are closed. The years - have been examined the Internal Revenue Service (the \x93IRS\x94) and disputed issues have been taken administrative appeals. The IRS currently examining the - years. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent and , respectively, generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. Although timing the resolution and closure audits highly uncertain, the Company believes reasonably possible that tax audit resolutions could reduce its unrecognized tax benefits between $ million and $ million the next months. Note \x96 Shareholders\x92 Equity and Stock-Based Compensation Preferred Stock The Company has five million shares authorized preferred stock, none which issued outstanding. Under the terms the Company\x92 Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions the Company\x92 authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under GAAP are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income, net taxes, the three years ended September , ( millions): Net unrealized gains losses available-for-sale securities $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Net unrecognized gains derivative instruments \x97 Cumulative foreign currency translation Accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ $ The change fair value available-for-sale securities included other comprehensive income was $ million, $( ) million and $( ) million, net taxes , and , respectively. The tax effect related the change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities was $( ) million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company during the three years ended September , ( millions): Changes fair value derivatives $ $ $ ( ) Adjustment for net gains losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrecognized gains losses derivative instruments $ $ $ ( ) The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $( ) million, $( ) million and $ million for , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains losses reclassified from other comprehensive income net income was $ million, $( ) million and $ million for , and , respectively. Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, RSUs, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights and performance-based awards. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years, based continued employment, with either annual, semi-annual quarterly vesting. general, RSUs granted under the Plan vest over two four years, are subject the employees\x92 continued employment and not have expiration date. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date. All stock options granted under the Plan are fully vested. October , the Company terminated the Plan, and new options can granted from this plan. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors adopted Director Stock Option Plan (the \x93Director Plan\x94) for non-employee directors the Company, which was approved shareholders . Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\x92 non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares common stock upon their initial election the Board (\x93Initial Options\x94). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\x92 initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares common stock (\x93Annual Options\x94). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. Options granted under the Director Plan expire ten years after the grant date. September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans October , , executive officers Timothy . Cook, Ronald . Johnson, Peter Oppenheimer, Philip . Schiller and Bertrand Serlet have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the \x93Exchange Act\x94). trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting RSUs. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the \x93Purchase Plan\x94), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six-month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\x92 compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. The number shares authorized purchased any calendar year limited total million shares. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the \x93Savings Plan\x94) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the IRS annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 eligible earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the Savings Plan were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Restricted Stock Units Historically, the Company used equity awards the form stock options one the means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. conjunction with the Company\x92 equity compensation program changes, began issuing primarily RSUs rather than stock options for eligible employees the primary type long-term equity-based award. summary the Company\x92 RSU activity and related information for the three years ended September , , follows ( thousands, except per share amounts): Number Shares Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance September , , $ Restricted stock units granted , $ Restricted stock units vested ( ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ Restricted stock units granted , $ Restricted stock units vested ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ Restricted stock units granted , $ Restricted stock units vested ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled ( ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , , The fair value the vesting date RSUs that vested was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Upon vesting, the RSUs are generally net share-settled cover the required withholding tax and the remaining amount converted into equivalent number shares common stock. The majority RSUs vested , and , were net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees\x92 minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately , , , and , for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their vesting date determined the Company\x92 closing stock price. Total payments for the employees\x92 tax obligations the taxing authorities were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively, and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. These net-share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced and retired the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. Stock Option Activity summary the Company\x92 stock option and RSU activity and related information for the three years ended September , , follows ( thousands, except per share amounts and contractual term years): Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value Balance September , , , $ Additional shares authorized , \x97 $ \x97 Restricted stock units granted ( , ) \x97 $ \x97 Options granted ( , ) , $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled \x97 $ \x97 Options exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) \x97 $ \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted stock units granted ( , ) \x97 $ \x97 Options granted ( , ) , $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled \x97 $ \x97 Options exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) \x97 $ \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted stock units granted ( , ) \x97 $ \x97 Options granted ( ) $ Options cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted stock units cancelled , \x97 $ \x97 Options exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan shares expired ( ) \x97 $ \x97 Balance September , , , $ $ , , Exercisable September , , $ $ , , Expected Vest after September , , $ $ , Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value the Company\x92 closing stock price the last trading day the fiscal period excess the weighted-average exercise price multiplied the number options outstanding exercisable. The aggregate intrinsic value excludes the effect stock options that have zero negative intrinsic value. Total intrinsic value options time exercise was $ million, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. RSUs granted are deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\x92 stock option plans utilizing factor two times the number RSUs granted. Similarly, RSUs cancelled are added back the shares available for grant under the Company\x92 stock option plans utilizing factor two times the number RSUs cancelled. Outstanding RSU balances are not included the outstanding options balances the stock option activity table. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation cost for RSUs measured based the closing fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Stock-based compensation cost for stock options estimated the grant date based each option\x92 fair-value calculated the BSM option-pricing model. The BSM option-pricing model incorporates various assumptions including expected volatility, expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility based the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\x92 stock options and other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\x92 common stock. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock awards grants employees. The Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost expense ratably straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The weighted-average assumptions used for the three years ended September , , and the resulting estimates weighted-average fair value per share options granted and employee stock purchase plan rights (\x93stock purchase rights\x94) during those periods are follows: Expected life stock options years ( ) years years Expected life stock purchase rights months months months Interest rate - stock options % ( ) % % Interest rate - stock purchase rights % % % Volatility - stock options % ( ) % % Volatility - stock purchase rights % % % Dividend yields \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted-average fair value stock options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value employee stock purchase plan rights during the year $ $ $ ( ) conjunction with the Company\x92 equity compensation program changes, began issuing primarily RSUs rather than stock options employees, although the Company continues grant stock options non-employee directors. Accordingly the weighted average expected life stock options was influenced non-employee director stock option grants, which had ten-year expected life. The weighted average expected life stock options also affects the resulting interest rate and expected volatility assumptions. The following table provides summary the stock-based compensation expense included the Consolidated Statements Operations for the three years ended September , ( millions): Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development Selling, general and administrative Total stock-based compensation expense $ $ $ Stock-based compensation expense capitalized software development costs was not significant September , September , . The income tax benefit related stock-based compensation expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost related stock options and RSUs expected vest was $ billion September , , which expected recognized over weighted-average period years. Note \x96 Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are generally for terms one years and generally provide renewal options for terms one five additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms five years, the majority which are for ten years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion, which $ billion related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): Years $ Thereafter Total minimum lease payments $ , Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. For products accounted for under subscription accounting, the Company recognizes warranty expense incurred. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and system software maintain the software\x92 compliance with published specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty costs that are recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 accrued warranties and related costs for the three years ended September , ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. However, the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage reduce its exposure such obligations, and payments made under these agreements historically have not materially adversely affected the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including but not limited microprocessors, enclosures, certain liquid crystal displays (\x93LCDs\x94), certain optical drives and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources, which subjects the Company significant supply and pricing risks. Many these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (\x93DRAM\x94) and certain LCDs, are subject times industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. addition, the Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply key components including but not limited microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs favorable pricing, but there guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar favorable terms, all, upon expiration otherwise obtain favorable pricing the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company and other participants the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. addition, the Company uses some custom components that are not common the rest the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers\x92 yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company\x92 supply key single-sourced component for new existing product were delayed constrained, such components were available only significantly higher prices, key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decided concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Significant portions the Company\x92 Mac computers, iPhones, iPods, logic boards and other assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. significant concentration this outsourced manufacturing currently performed only few the Company\x92 outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced supplier components and manufacturing outsourcing for many the Company\x92 key products including but not limited final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable Mac computers, iPhones, iPods and most the Company\x92 desktop products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods ranging from days. Long-Term Supply Agreements The Company has entered into prepaid long-term supply agreements secure the supply certain inventory components. During the first quarter , long-term supply agreement with Intel Corporation was terminated and the remaining prepaid balance $ million was repaid the Company. During the second and fourth quarters , the Company made prepayment $ million Display for the purchase LCD panels and prepayment $ million Toshiba purchase NAND flash memory, respectively. September , , the Company had total $ billion inventory component prepayments outstanding. Contingencies The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated, which are discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Legal Proceedings.\x94 the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition operating results. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. the Company failed prevail any these legal matters several these legal matters were resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental, product safety and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 financial condition operating results. Note \x96 Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its operating segments, which are generally based the nature and location its customers, the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific, Retail and FileMaker operations. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments consist Americas, Europe, Japan and Retail operations. Other operating segments include Asia Pacific, which encompasses Australia and Asia except for Japan and the Company\x92 FileMaker, Inc. subsidiary. The Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific segments exclude activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the . and international markets. Each reportable operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services the same types customers. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies.\x94 The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers, while Retail segment net sales are based sales from the Company\x92 retail stores. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, such manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, research and development, corporate marketing expenses, stock-based compensation expense, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges, and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets, such cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing and corporate facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. Except for the Retail segment, capital asset purchases for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Cash payments for capital asset purchases the Retail segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company has certain retail stores that have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. The Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with its high-profile stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated Company-wide benefit. The allocation these operating costs corporate expense based the amount incurred for high-profile store excess that incurred more typical Company retail location. The Company had opened total high-profile stores September , . Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations high-profile stores were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Summary information operating segment for the three years ended September , follows ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ , $ , $ Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other Segments ( ): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. ( ) Other Segments include Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements for the three years ended September , follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Other corporate expenses, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Corporate assets , , , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization and accretion $ $ $ ( ) Other corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses, including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. single customer single country outside the . accounted for more than % net sales , . Net sales and long-lived assets related the . and international operations for the three years ended September , , are follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , $ , International Total long-lived assets $ , $ , $ , Information regarding net sales product for the three years ended September , , follows ( millions): Net sales: Desktops ( ) $ , $ , $ , Portables ( ) , , , Total Mac net sales , , , iPod , , , Other music related products and services ( ) , , , iPhone and related products and services ( ) , , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , , , Software, service and other net sales ( ) , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes iMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, MacBook Air and MacBook Pro product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Store sales and iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Derived from handset sales, carrier agreements, and Apple-branded and third-party iPhone accessories. ( ) Includes sales displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system and application software, third-party software, AppleCare and Internet services. Note \x96 Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions The Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, Steve Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Company recognized total approximately $ , , $ , and $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , and , respectively. All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included selling, general and administrative expenses the Consolidated Statements Operations. Note \x96 Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables set forth summary the Company\x92 quarterly financial information for each the four quarters ended September , and September , ( millions, except per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Apple Inc. September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Inc. September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited Apple Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (\x93the COSO criteria\x94). Apple Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Apple Inc. and for the year ended September , and our report dated October , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Report KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Apple Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for the years ended September , and September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit also includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Inc. and subsidiaries September , and the results their operations and their cash flows for the years ended September , and September , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. discussed note the Consolidated Financial Statements, effective September , , the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation . , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes \x96 interpretation FASB Statement . . / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California November , ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Exchange Act were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with GAAP. The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (\x93COSO\x94). Based the Company\x92 assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. The report the audit internal control over financial reporting appears page this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter fiscal , which were identified connection with management\x92 evaluation required paragraph ( ) rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item under the heading \x93Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance\x94 incorporated herein reference from the information contained the Company\x92 Proxy Statement filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company\x92 Annual Meeting Shareholders (\x93 Proxy Statement\x94). Such Proxy Statement will filed with the SEC within days after the end the fiscal year which this report relates. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item under the headings \x93Executive Compensation\x94 and \x93Compensation Discussion and Analysis\x94 incorporated herein reference from the information contained the Company\x92 Proxy Statement. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item under the headings \x93Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management\x94 and \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 incorporated herein reference from the information contained the Company\x92 Proxy Statement. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item under the heading \x93Review, Approval Ratification Transactions with Related Persons\x94 incorporated herein reference from the information contained the Company\x92 Proxy Statement. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required this Item under the heading \x93Fees Paid Auditors\x94 incorporated herein reference from the information contained the Company\x92 Proxy Statement. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - The information required this Item set forth the exhibit index that follows the signature page this report. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}