{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" "Microsoft") was founded partnership and incorporated . Microsoft develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports wide range software products, including scalable operating systems for intelligent devices, personal computers (PCs) and servers; server applications for client server environments; business and consumer productivity applications; software development tools; and Internet and intranet software and technologies. The Company\' interactive efforts include entertainment and information software programs, MSN( ), the Microsoft Network online service; Internet-based services; and alliances with companies involved with other forms digital interactivity. Microsoft also sells personal computer input devices and books, and researches and develops advanced technologies for future software products. Microsoft\' business strategy emphasizes the development broad line software products for business and personal use, marketed through multiple channels distribution. The Company divided into three main areas: the Product Group, the Sales and Support Group, and the Operations Group. The Platforms and Applications Product Group comprised three primary divisions, each responsible for particular area platform software development and marketing. The Platforms Group develops and server operating systems. The Applications and Tools Group creates server and desktop productivity applications and software development products. The Consumer Platforms Group develops system software for intelligent devices. The Interactive Media Product Group creates and markets productivity programs, interactive entertainment and information products, desktop finance products, and hardware peripherals. Interactive Media offerings include children\' titles, games, reference sources, online informational services, and MSN. The Desktop Finance Division develops personal finance products. The Hardware Division develops peripherals such the keyboard and mouse. Microsoft has research lab dedicated creating new technology support the Company\' vision for the evolution personal computing. The Sales and Support Group responsible for building long-term business relationships with customers. This group organized serve various customer types, including original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), end-users, organizations, enterprises, application developers, Internet content providers (ICPs) and infrastructure owners. Large enterprises are offered tailored license programs, enterprise-wide support, consulting services, and other specialized services. The group manages the channels that serve customers working with OEMs, distributors, and resellers. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales organizations: the South Pacific and the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and Asia. The group also supports the Company\' products with technical support for end- users, developers, and organizations. The Operations Group responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes the process manufacturing and delivering finished goods and licenses; corporate functions such finance, administration, human resources, and legal; and the publishing efforts Microsoft Press. PRODUCTS PLATFORMS The Platforms Group responsible for development the Microsoft( ) Windows( ) and Windows ( ) operating systems including Microsoft Internet Explorer browsing software. operating systems perform variety functions, such allocating computer memory, scheduling applications software execution, managing information and communication flow among the various components, and enabling end-users access files and information from variety sources. The Windows operating system for servers enterprise-wide platform for building and deploying distributed applications for networked PCs. also provides products for developing, running, and managing Internet and intranet applications and content. Component Object Model (COM) underlies large majority the new code developed for Windows and Windows operating systems. COM+, extension COM, builds COM\' integrated services and features, making easier for developers create and use software components any language, using any tool. Windows Platforms Windows . The successor Windows , Windows personal computer operating system which provides Web-oriented user interface, better system performance along with easier system diagnostics and maintenance. Windows supports current graphics, sound, and multimedia technologies, provides the ability easily add and remove peripheral devices with support for Universal Serial Bus (USB), and also enables the convergence the and television. Windows was released June . Windows . The successor -DOS( ) and Windows , Windows was released August ; periodic service releases, system updates, and new device drivers have been made available OEMs and end-users via the Internet the Company\' web site, http://www microsoft com. Windows fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, designed compatible with Intel microprocessor-based PCs, most hardware devices, and applications for Windows and -DOS. Windows . Microsoft Windows provides graphical user interface and other enhancements for -DOS, single-user, single-tasking operating system. Windows supports -bit Windows-based applications, and offers ease use, aesthetic appeal, and straightforward integration into corporate computing environments. Windows for Workgroups integrates network and workgroup functionality directly into the Windows operating system. Windows Platforms Windows Workstation. fully integrated, multitasking -bit operating system, Windows Workstation provides superior security, robustness, and portability. Windows Workstation multithreaded operating system for mission critical computing which provides the same features and applications programming interfaces (APIs) for Intel and Alpha AXP microprocessors. Microsoft Windows Workstation features the Windows interface and combines the ease use the Windows operating system with the reliability and security Windows . Windows Server. Windows Server powerful operating system foundation for both server applications and file and print sharing, with extensive network management features, administration tools, security, and high availability. Windows Server provides scalable platform for business critical applications and databases, connectivity, system management, and - mail servers. The operating system integrates Web services such Microsoft Internet Information Server, service used manage intranet and Internet functionality and Microsoft FrontPage( ) Web site creation and management tool. Windows Server, Terminal Server Edition, extension the Windows Server product line, offers the application support the Windows operating system platform with the existing low cost, centrally managed environment the mainframe with terminal. Windows Server also includes Microsoft Transaction Server, component-based transaction processing system for developing, deploying, and managing scalable enterprise, Internet and intranet server applications. APPLICATIONS AND TOOLS The Applications and Tools Group responsible for desktop applications, application oriented server applications, developer tools, and web authoring tools. Desktop Applications The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which provides the with instructions for the performance productivity tasks such manipulating text, numbers, graphics. The Company\' desktop applications software designed for use broad class end- users, regardless business, industry, market segment. Primary examples desktop applications software are word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation graphics programs. The Company\' desktop applications programs are developed principally for Windows and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Office. Microsoft Office suite software programs featuring seamless integration the most commonly used desktop applications. Microsoft Office based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office available several versions, with certain combinations products available for the various operating system platforms. The most recent version for Windows, Microsoft Office , has enhanced Internet features such integration with Microsoft Internet Explorer, Web toolbar, the ability save HTML format, connectivity other Office documents web sites via hyperlinks, and support for ActiveX( ) controls. Products offered the various versions include the word processor Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, Microsoft PowerPoint( ) presentation graphics program, Microsoft Outlook( ) messaging and collaboration client, Microsoft Access database, Microsoft Bookshelf( ) -ROM reference library, and others. The Microsoft Home Essentials( ) suite marketed primarily toward users the home. Microsoft Word. The Company\' principal word processing program Microsoft Word. Versions Microsoft Word provide graphical word processing features, plus the ability handle graphics, tables, spreadsheet data, charts, and images imported from other software programs. Microsoft Excel. The Company\' spreadsheet program Microsoft Excel. integrated spreadsheet with PivotTable( ) dynamic views, database, and business graphics capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and embedding objects that permits users view and edit graphics charts from other programs the worksheet which the object stored. Microsoft Excel graphics capabilities can linked its spreadsheets allow simultaneous changes charts changes are made the spreadsheets. Microsoft PowerPoint. Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program for producing transparencies, slides, overheads, and prints. Microsoft Access. Microsoft Access relational database management application that provides access structured business data. Database products control the maintenance and utilization structured data organized into set records files. Microsoft Outlook. The Company\' premier collaboration and messaging client Microsoft Outlook. Outlook combines support for Internet standards-based messaging systems--including Microsoft Exchange Server--with integrated calendar, contact, and task-management features. Microsoft Project. Microsoft Project critical path project scheduling and resource allocation program. The product can perform budgeting, monitoring, and cost estimating tool for large business projects and critical path and schedule planning tool. Other Productivity Products. The Company also offers other productivity products. Microsoft Publisher easy- -use, entry-level desktop publishing program. Microsoft FrontPage Web site creation and management tool for Web sites the Internet intranets. Server Applications Based Windows Server, the Microsoft BackOffice( ) family server applications integrated suite software products that include file and print services, applications, database, messaging, groupware, desktop management, Internet access, transaction processing, and host connectivity. BackOffice enables organizations share information, collaborate, and manage and deploy business-critical applications. Microsoft BackOffice Small Business Server designed for smaller companies users less integrated solution for sharing files, databases, printers, electronic mail, fax services, applications, and other resources. Microsoft Exchange Server. The Company\' messaging and collaboration server Microsoft Exchange Server, which provides -mail, group scheduling, task management, and document routing capabilities. Exchange Server offers scalable, reliable, and secure environment for multiple clients and Internet protocols are part the core server architecture. also includes tools create rich collaboration applications. Microsoft SQL Server. Microsoft SQL Server( ) version scalable, high- performance database management system designed specifically for distributed client server computing. Its built- data replication, management tools, Internet integration, and open system architecture provide Windows -based platform for delivering cost-effective information solutions. Other Servers. Microsoft Proxy Server creates single, secure gateway the Internet; Microsoft SNA Server provides connectivity host data and applications; and Microsoft Systems Management Server centrally manages this distributed environment. Microsoft Site Server allows comprehensive management sophisticated Web sites and their content. Microsoft Site Server Commerce helps businesses engage customers and partners with the creation cost-effective commerce sites and applications, targeted online advertising and marketing, and personalized promotion. Developer Tools The Developer Tools Division provides software development tools and technical information Internet applications developers and developers for Windows. These products and services empower independent software developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and Webmasters create broad spectrum applications, primarily for Windows -bit operating systems, but also for the platform-independent Internet and intranets. Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct hardware. The Company develops and markets number software development environments, and language compilers. Microsoft Visual ++( ) the Company\' development system for Windows-based application development. The Microsoft Visual Basic( ) development system provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability take advantage investments commercial applications through ActiveX controls. The Visual InterDev( ) Web Development System includes integrated, team-based development tools for building data-driven Web applications based HTML, Script, and components written any language. Microsoft Visual ++( ) development system for Java contains high productivity Integrated Development Environment and collection integrated components create, test, tune, and deploy Java code multiple platforms using ActiveX controls. Microsoft Visual Studio( ) development system suite developer tools enabling developers build components and applications using Visual Basic, Visual ++, Visual FoxPro( ) database development system, Visual InterDev, and Visual ++. The Company provides third-party software developers with wide range technical and support information that assists them developing software products intended run Windows operating systems, taking advantage key technologies such ActiveX controls and Windows -bit APIs. Developers can subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN( )) information service and receive periodic updates via -ROMs, magazines, and several -line information services. CONSUMER PLATFORMS The Consumer Platforms Group delivers software and platform technologies that extend the benefits Windows and Windows-compatible solutions for broad range intelligent business and consumer devices, including handheld PCs, Palm-sized PCs, wireless-communication devices such digital information pagers and cellular smart phones, next-generation entertainment and multimedia consoles including game players, and purpose-built Internet access devices such Internet TVs, digital set-top boxes and Internet "Web phones." The Consumer Platforms Group also responsible for systems integration products and technologies that public network operators and corporate customers need for variety Internet and intranet-based applications. Windows . Microsoft develops Windows , scaleable Windows platform for broad range communications, entertainment, and mobile computing devices. The Windows operating system built around API that consistent with other -bit Windows-based operating systems, which allows developers and programmers use the same development tools and communication protocols create applications for Windows -powered devices. Windows allows information appliances communicate with each other, share information with Windows-based PCs, and connect the Internet. Windows developed for companions, including handheld PCs, palm-size PCs, and auto PCs, vertical market devices, and home products. Microsoft teams with hardware companies that build Windows -based devices and who understand the needs vertical markets such automotive, retail, manufacturing, education, healthcare, telecommunications, broadcast. WebTV. August , Microsoft acquired WebTV Networks, Inc., online service that enables consumers experience the Internet through their televisions via set-top terminals based WebTV( ) technologies. WebTV operates the WebTV Network Service and develops the WebTV Internet Terminal and WebTV Plus Receiver, which are available through the company\' licensees. Future versions the set-top terminals will use the Windows operating system. INTERACTIVE MEDIA The Interactive Media Group develops and markets interactive entertainment and information products across variety media, including the Internet, MSN, the Microsoft Network, and -ROM. Learning, Entertainment and Productivity. Reference titles include Microsoft Encarta( ) and Microsoft Bookshelf. The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia database blends text articles with innovative, interactive information presented through animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures. Bookshelf multimedia reference library that integrates dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books quotations. The Expedia( ) travel series product line offers global positioning system (GPS)-compatible maps and travel planning easy- -use format. Titles for children include Personal Tutor, comprehensive three -ROM learning suite, and series products based the popular children\' book and television series, Scholastic\' The Magic School Bus( ). The Company offers line entertainment products. Microsoft Flight Simulator popular aircraft flight simulation product available for Windows, -DOS, and Macintosh operating systems. Other games include Age Empires( ), Monster Truck Madness( ), Microsoft Golf, and other sports and action titles. Most games are available for the Windows -bit environment. The Microsoft Internet Gaming Zone gaming community the Internet allowing multiplayer gaming competitions popular -ROM games and classic card, board, and puzzle games. Microsoft\' productivity offerings include Microsoft Works, integrated software program that contains basic word processing, spreadsheet, and database capabilities that allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. Home Essentials, integrated software program, allows consumers complete home tasks using Microsoft Word, Microsoft Encarta, Microsoft Money, Microsoft Works, Microsoft Greetings Workshop, Microsoft Internet Explorer, and the Microsoft Entertainment Pack-The Puzzle Collection. Interactive Service Media. The Company developing online decision support infrastructure for end-users such fields automobiles, retail, entertainment, and travel. Microsoft CarPoint( ) online automotive service provides current and objective information for new car purchases, including test drive reviews, dealer invoices, and surround videos. Additionally, CarPoint features interactive classifieds for used car purchasing and new car buying service. Comprised national network dealers, this service refers customers nearby dealers. Microsoft Sidewalk( ) online city guide personalized city guide local entertainment. The Sidewalk editorial team provides previews, reviews and even customized suggestions about entertainment events Seattle, New York, Boston, Minneapolis . Paul, Washington, ., San Diego, Denver, Houston, San Francisco, and Sydney, Australia, with city guides scheduled launch additional cities. Microsoft Expedia( ) travel service free service the Web and MSN, which enables users find low fares, book flights, make hotel reservations, and rent cars. Expedia also offers comprehensive source information for more than destinations including photos, historical information, and local details. Microsoft HomeAdvisor online real estate service complete guide the home-buying process and provides comprehensive tools for finding homes and loans the Internet. With HomeAdvisor( ), users can find home, qualify and apply for loan online, calculate financing options, and gain real estate industry knowledge. The Microsoft Network. MSN Web-based interactive online service. MSN provides easy and inexpensive access for users wide range graphically rich online content. The online service provides access the Internet, free Web-based electronic mail account through Hotmail, bulletin boards, and myriad additional services offered Microsoft and ICPs. Joint Ventures. The Company has entered into joint venture arrangements take advantage creative talent and content from other organizations. Microsoft owns percent DreamWorks Interactive ., software company that develops interactive and multimedia products. DreamWorks SKG owns the remaining percent. Microsoft owns percent MSNBC Cable ., - hour cable news and information channel; and percent MSNBC Interactive News ., interactive online news service. National Broadcasting Company (NBC) owns the remaining percent these two joint ventures. Microsoft investor MSFDC ., joint venture between Microsoft and First Data Corp. MSFDC has announced that changing its name TransPoint and Citibank will make equity investment the venture. The venture developing Internet bill delivery and payment service called TransPoint - Bills. Desktop Finance. Desktop Finance develops and markets consumer finance products and manages relationships with financial institutions develop online deliver systems for customers. Microsoft Money financial organization product that allows users computerize their household finances. Microsoft Money available for systems running Microsoft Windows -bit operating systems and provides online home-banking services with numerous different banks the . Microsoft Investor online investing site that provides comprehensive offering information and services designed help personal investors make investment decisions, track their securities and understand the market. blend free and subscription-based services, Investor provides portfolio tracking and analysis, company and mutual fund research, investment finder, daily editorial and market summaries, electronic mail notifications and alerts, and access online trading through leading financial services firms. Hardware Peripherals. The Company\' major input device the Microsoft Mouse, hand-held pointing device that facilitates use . The Microsoft IntelliMouse( ) pointing device mouse with center positioned wheel which provides transfer zooming, scrolling and data zooming Microsoft Windows -bit operating systems, Microsoft Internet Explorer, and Microsoft Office . Microsoft also offers mouse designed for the home and mouse for young children. The Company also markets the Microsoft Natural( ) Keyboard, ergonomically designed keyboard. Additionally, Microsoft sells various Microsoft Sidewinder( ) Game Controllers and Force Feedback joysticks with realistic performance technology for use with games. ActiMates( ) Interactive Barney two-way interactive, talking and moving, wireless plush character peripheral for young children that operates via programming from -ROM ( mode) VHS ( mode) and -board ROM chip (Standalone mode). MICROSOFT PRESS Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and other software developers and about current developments the industry. Books published Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted independent authors who submit their manuscripts the Company for publication and who receive royalties based revenue generated the book. Microsoft Press contracts with independent commercial printer for the manufacturing its books. Publisher\' Resources, Inc. acts the Company\' main fulfillment house the United States, maintaining the majority the inventory Microsoft Press( ) books. Books are marketed independent sales representatives and Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous international agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution its books. Microsoft Press has granted publisher England the right distribute English language versions its books all countries except the United States, Canada, Central and South America, and certain Asian countries. most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with book\' manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution the translated version. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The software industry characterized extremely rapid technological change, which requires constant attention software technology trends and shifting consumer demand, and rapid product innovation. The pace change has recently become even greater due the surge interest the Internet, other forms online services, server-based networking, and new programming languages, such Java. Most the Company\' software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third-party development and localization certain products. Internal development enables Microsoft maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodologies for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodologies are also designed simplify product\' portability among different operating systems, microprocessors, computers. Product documentation generally created internally. The Company believes that crucial factor the success new product getting market quickly respond new user needs advances PCs, servers, peripherals, and the Internet, without compromising product quality. The Company strives become informed the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. order best serve the needs users around the world, Microsoft "localizes" many its products reflect local languages and conventions. French versions, for example, all user messages and documentation are French with monetary references French francs. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. During fiscal years , , and , the Company spent $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion, respectively, product research and development activities. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years, excluding funding joint venture activity. The Company committed continue high expenditures for research and product development. MANUFACTURING Microsoft contracts most its manufacturing activity with third parties. Outside manufacturers produce various retail software packaged products and hardware such mouse pointing devices, keyboards, and joysticks. There are other custom manufacturers the event that outsourced manufacturing becomes unavailable from current sources. The Company\' manufacturing facilities are located Puerto Rico and Ireland. The Irish facility and the Puerto Rico facilities replicate disks. Microsoft outsources its manufacturing packaged products. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, finished disks and -ROMs, and other products. The chief materials and components used Microsoft products include disks -ROMs, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components. recent years the Company\' sales mix has shifted OEM and organizational licenses from packaged products. Also, online distribution software may increase the future. OPERATIONS Microsoft manages all product fulfillment, licensing, and logistic services. The company has regional operation centers Ireland and the Greater Seattle area. The regional centers support all operations activities, including information processing, vendor management, logistics, and related supporting functions geographical regions. The regional center Dublin, Ireland supports the European, African and Middle East regions, and the center the Greater Seattle area supports North and South America. The company establishing regional operations center Singapore for the Asia Pacific region and plans consolidate its sales operation. The company established Microsoft Licensing Incorporated (MSLI) Reno, Nevada, wholly owned subsidiary, which manages the company\' OEM licensing operations. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing staff with several customer types, including OEMs, end-users, organizations, enterprises, applications developers, educators, and Internet content providers (ICPs) and infrastructure owners. The Company\' sales and marketing group seeks build long-term relationships with customers Microsoft products. addition the OEM channel, Microsoft has three major geographic sales and marketing organizations: the South Pacific and the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and Asia. The OEM customer unit includes the sales force that works with original equipment manufacturers that preinstall Microsoft software their PCs. The end-user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target end-users that make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use work home. Most sales and marketing activities aimed end-user customers are performed this unit, including developing and administering reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end-user marketing programs; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. The customer unit\' sub-segments include direct marketing resellers and retailers. The key products marketed the end-user customer unit are the Company\' operating systems, desktop applications, and interactive media products. The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that target groups users small and medium organizations. The unit works with channel partners such distributors, aggregators, value-added resellers, and Solution Providers provide complete business solutions this customer segment. The unit\' sales and marketing activities include managing technical training programs for Solution Providers (described below) and channel resellers; and supporting and providing seminars, events, and sales training for channel partners. The Company works with the partners provide software and support broad range small and medium size organizations. The organization customer unit also runs the Microsoft Certified Professional program, which ensures the quality Microsoft training for individuals and corporations. The enterprise customer unit has responsibility for sales and marketing activities that target large organizations. The unit works directly with these organizations, and through large account resellers, create and support enterprise-wide, mission critical solutions for business computing needs. The enterprise customer unit also provides seminars and forums familiarize enterprises with technology issues and solutions. The application developers customer unit targets corporate developers and independent software vendors (ISVs) who build business applications with development platform based Microsoft Windows and BackOffice architecture. The unit\' sales and marketing activities include providing industry specific technical training, seminars, and events for ISVs. The application developers customer unit also focuses vertical and horizontal industries and their associated software applications. key focus the group Microsoft Developer Tools. The education customer unit works with key education groups and other industry partners provide programs and technology tools that help them expand and enhance learning opportunities for students. The education customer unit has three primary areas, including higher education, - , and management the education channel and resellers. The Internet customer unit responsible for introducing the Company\' products and technologies the public infrastructure owners and ICPs. The customer unit also focuses embedded and dedicated systems. Infrastructure owners include network operators (telephone companies, cable companies, Internet service providers, etc.) who build, own, and operate the public networks and ICPs who provide content for the Web. FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS Distributors and Resellers. The Company markets its products the finished goods channels primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors include CHS Electronics, Computer , Inacom, Ingram Micro, Soft Bank, Tech Data, and Merisel. Resellers include Software Spectrum, Corporate Software & Technology, CompUSA, Software House International, Softmart, ASAP Software Express, and Best Buy. Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. Large Accounts. The Microsoft Select program offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially customized meet the needs large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end-users large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with large account resellers. The Microsoft OPEN program licensing program that targeted for small and medium size organizations. available through the reseller channel and offers discounts based initial purchase volumes. Solution Providers. Microsoft\' Solution Providers program comprehensive support relationship with independent organizations that provide network and system integration, custom development, training, and technical support for business computing solutions. The program supports value-added resellers (VARs), system integrators, consultants, custom application developers, solution developers, Internet service and hosting organizations, independent content providers, and sitebuilders (companies that build Web sites for other companies), well technical support and training organizations. Under this business partnership strategy, the Company provides sales and product information, development services, early access Microsoft products, and customer support tools including priority telephone support, education, and business development support. ensure high-quality technical services for the Company\' products, Microsoft Solution Providers are required have Microsoft-certified professionals staff. Microsoft Direct Access comprehensive and open program that allows independent technology providers actively engage with Microsoft through the Microsoft Direct Access program online, quarterly briefings, training, and action packs. Consulting Services. The Company\' Consulting Services Division assists customers deploying and using the Company\' computer operating systems, applications, and communications products. The group works with Solution Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large corporate accounts. International Sales Sites. The Company has established marketing and support subsidiaries more than countries. Product generally delivered the Company\' owned outsourced manufacturing operations. They also spend significant portion their time working with partners help them become more proficient providing these technical services. Notes Financial Statements--(see Item ) describe foreign operations and export sales. The Company\' international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject certain risks common foreign operations general, such governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Microsoft hedges portion its foreign exchange risk. OEM CHANNEL Microsoft operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies the Company\' products with their computers. The Company also markets and licenses certain desktop applications, hardware, and interactive media programs OEMs under similar arrangements. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major OEMs, including, Acer, Compaq, Dell, Fujitsu ICL, Gateway , Hewlett-Packard, IBM, NEC Packard Bell, Samsung, Siemens, Toshiba, and Vobis. ADVERTISING The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad consumer media (television, radio, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for certain advertising expenditures. The Company maintains broad advertising campaign emphasizing the Microsoft brand identity. CUSTOMERS The Company\' customers include end-users, organizations, enterprises, ISPs, application developers, and OEMs. Most end-users Microsoft products are individuals businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and home. The end-users and organizations obtain Microsoft products primarily through resellers and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their hardware. Notes Financial Statements (see Item ) describe customers that represent more than % the Company\' revenue. The Company\' practice ship its products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog not significant. PRODUCT SUPPORT The Company provides product support coverage options meet the needs users Microsoft products. Support personnel are located various sites the . and around the world. Certain support also supplied qualified third-party support organizations. The Company hires individuals with product expertise and provides them with productivity tools, continuous product education and training, and consistent processes deliver quality support for Microsoft products. Coverage options range from standard -charge toll telephone support fee-based offerings providing unlimited number telephone and electronic technical support for all Microsoft products hours per day, days per week. Users have access troubleshooting "wizards" and Microsoft\' KnowledgeBase, library thousands technical articles that updated regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Microsoft provides access KnowledgeBase via MSN, America Online, Prodigy, and the Internet. Additionally, several support offerings include Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network information subscription services. supplement alternative direct support, the Company enhances the third-party support channel providing Microsoft Solution Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solution Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide wide spectrum multinational support, multivendor support, and integration services. COMPETITION The software business intensely competitive and subject extremely rapid technological change. Microsoft faces formidable competition all areas its business activity, including competition from many companies much larger than Microsoft. The rapid pace technological change continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups and can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. The Company also faces constant competition from software pirates who unlawfully copy and distribute Microsoft\' copyrighted software products. Operating systems. Microsoft\' operating system products face substantial competition from wide variety companies. Major competitors such IBM, Apple Computer, Compaq (Digital Equipment Corporation), Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems and others are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall computers their own manufacture. Many these operating system software products are also licensed third-party OEMs for preinstallation their machines. Microsoft\' operating system products compete with UNIX-based operating systems from wide range companies including IBM, & , Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, The Santa Cruz Operation, and others. Variants UNIX run wide variety computer platforms and have gained increasing acceptance desktop operating systems. Over the past year the Linux operating system has gained increasing acceptance, and leading software developers such Oracle and Corel have announced that they will develop applications that run Linux. technology increasingly moves toward connectivity and communications, Microsoft\' operating system products will face increased competition from network server operating systems such Novell\' NetWare, Banyan\' Vines, the many variants UNIX, IBM\' , "middleware" products such IBM\' Lotus Notes, and intranet servers from Netscape, IBM, Sun Microsystems, and others. Business systems. The Company fairly recent entrant into the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions. Several competitors enjoy larger share sales and larger installed bases. Many companies offer operating system software for mainframes and midrange computers, including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. Since legacy business systems are typically support-intensive, these competitors also offer substantive support services. Software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, Computer Associates, Sybase, and Informix. There are also several software vendors who offer connectivity servers. mentioned above, there are numerous companies and organizations that offer Internet and intranet server software which compete against the Company\' business systems. Additionally, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with the Company\' collaboration and -mail products. Desktop applications. The Company\' competitors include many software application vendors, such IBM (Lotus), Oracle, Apple (Filemaker, Inc.), Corel, and local application developers Europe and the Far East. IBM and Corel have large installed bases with their spreadsheet and word processor products, respectively, and both have aggressive pricing strategies. Also, IBM and Apple preinstall certain their software products various models their PCs, competing directly with Microsoft desktop application software. Developer tools. The Company\' developer products compete against offerings from Borland, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Sybase, Symantec, and other companies. News services. The Company\' MSNBC joint ventures face formidable competition from other -hour cable and Internet news organizations such CNN, CNN Headline News, and Fox News Network. MSNBC also competes with traditional news media such newspapers and broadcast and Internet news services. Consumer platforms. wide variety companies develop operating systems for information appliances, including Apple, Motorola, 3Com, Psion Software, and others. The Company\' nascent WebTV offerings and other multimedia consumer products face competitors such Sun Microsystems, Oracle, NetChannel, and others. enormous range companies, including media conglomerates, telephone companies, cable companies, retailers, hardware manufacturers, and software developers, are competing make interactive services widely available the home. Internet platforms and services. The advent the Internet computing, communication, and collaboration platform well low cost and efficient distribution vehicle increases competition and creates uncertainty future technology directions. The Company faces intense competition the development and marketing Internet (and intranet) software from wide variety companies and organizations including IBM, Netscape, Novell, Oracle, Real Networks, Sun Microsystems\', and many others. addition, the very low barriers entry the Internet have allowed numerous Web-based service companies build significant businesses areas such electronic mail, electronic commerce, Web search engines, directories, and information numerous types. Competitors include Netscape, Lycos, Yahoo, Excite, Infoseek, CitySearch, and many others. Online services. Microsoft\' online services network, MSN, faces formidable competition from America Online and other traditional online services well vast array sites the World Wide Web that offer content all types and email, chat, search and shopping services, among other things. Interactive media. The Company\' Interactive Media division faces many smaller but focused and branded competitors, particularly the areas entertainment and education. Consolidation this area software development has made certain competitors even stronger. Competitors include Intuit, Electronic Arts, The Learning Company (including Softkey, MECC, Broderbund, and Compton\' ), Voyager, Cendant (including Sierra Line, Knowledge Adventures, and Davidson Associates), and Dorling Kindersley. Still other competitors own branded content, such Disney and Lucas Arts. Additionally, -based games are increasingly competing head- -head against games created for proprietary systems such Nintendo, Sony PlayStation, and Sega. Input devices face substantial competition from computer manufacturers, since computers are typically sold with keyboard and mouse, and other manufacturers these devices. number Microsoft\' most significant competitors, including IBM, Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and Netscape, are collaborating with one another various initiatives directed competition with Microsoft. These initiatives relate part efforts move software from individual PCs centrally- managed servers. While the likely technological and business success such "thin client" strategies currently unknown, widespread adoption such computing systems would present significant challenges the Company\' historical business model. The Company\' competitive position may adversely affected one more these factors the future, particularly view the fast pace technological change the software industry. EMPLOYEES June , , the Company employed , people full-time basis, , the . and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\' success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\' employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes relations with its employees are excellent. ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company recently completed the construction three office buildings comprising approximately , square feet space and constructing set office buildings with approximately , square feet space. This site will occupied the winter . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company entered into build suit lease agreement the San Francisco, , Bay Area. This campus when complete will approximately , square feet. scheduled open the spring . The Company leases , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company\' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes office buildings with , square feet for international localization. The Ireland facilities are fully owned the Company. Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. the United Kingdom, the Company owns building that total , square feet. The Company going execute sale lease back this property during the next fiscal year. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. The Company\' facilities are fully utilized for current operations and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Contingencies page - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS RESULTS OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information set forth pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information set forth pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA The following financial statements and supplement data for the Company and independent auditors\' report set forth pages and - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit .. Income Statements for the three years ended June , . Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , . Balance Sheets June , and . Stockholders\' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , . Notes Financial Statements. Independent Auditors\' Report ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES None. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates............ Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer........... President Robert . Herbold........... Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins..... Group Vice President, Interactive Media Paul . Maritz.............. Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications Nathan . Myhrvold.......... Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Jeffrey . Raikes........... Group Vice President, Sales and Support James . Allchin............ Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems Orlando Ayala Lozano........ Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas Region Joachim Kempin.............. Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet Customer Unit, Embedded Systems Michel Lacombe.............. Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; President, Microsoft Europe Robert . Muglia............ Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools Division Craig Mundie................ Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division William . Neukom........... Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Bernard . Vergnes.......... Senior Vice President, Microsoft; Chairman, Microsoft Europe Gregory . Maffei........... Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named President July and had been Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Interactive Media Group October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications October and had been Group Vice President, Platforms since May . had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President and Chief Technology Officer October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and had been Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology since July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Support July . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems February . was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Senior Vice President South Pacific and Americas Region February . had been Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet Customer Unit, Embedded Systems February . had been Senior Vice President, OEM Sales since August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Lacombe President, Microsoft Europe. was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region February . had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July . had been Vice President, Europe since September and Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April . . Lacombe had been Regional Director Southern Europe from May . . Lacombe joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools Division February . had been Vice President the Server Applications Division since and was Vice President Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Vergnes Senior Vice President and Chairman, Microsoft Europe. was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . . Maffei was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer July . was named Vice President, Corporate Development July and Treasurer April . joined Microsoft April Director, Business Development & Investments. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth Notes Financial Statements -- Acquisition page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES PURSUANT THE REQUIREMENTS SECTION ( ) THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT , THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT SIGNED ITS BEHALF THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, THE CITY REDMOND, STATE WASHINGTON, SEPTEMBER , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Gregory . Maffei _____________________________________ Gregory . Maffei Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer PURSUANT THE REQUIREMENTS THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT , THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW THE FOLLOWING PERSONS BEHALF THE REGISTRANT AND THE CAPACITIES INDICATED SEPTEMBER , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors and ______________________________________ Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Paul . Allen / / Jill . Barad Director ______________________________________ Jill . Barad / / Richard . Hackborn Director ______________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ______________________________________ David . Marquardt / / Robert . \'Brien Director ______________________________________ Robert . \'Brien / / . . Reed, . Director ______________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ______________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / Gregory . Maffei Vice President, Finance; Chief ______________________________________ Financial Officer (Principal Financial Gregory . Maffei and Accounting Officer) EXHIBIT INDEX NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------ ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "PROPERTIES The Company' corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company recently completed the construction three office buildings comprising approximately , square feet space and constructing set office buildings with approximately , square feet space. This site will occupied the winter . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company entered into build suit lease agreement the San Francisco, , Bay Area. This campus when complete will approximately , square feet. scheduled open the spring . The Company leases , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes office buildings with , square feet for international localization. The Ireland facilities are fully owned the Company. Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. the United Kingdom, the Company owns building that total , square feet. The Company going execute sale lease back this property during the next fiscal year. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. The Company' facilities are fully utilized for current operations and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ", 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information set forth Notes Financial Statements--Contingencies page - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal . PART ', 'item 5. ': "MARKET FOR REGISTRANT' COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ", 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 7. ': "MANAGEMENT' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS RESULTS OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information set forth pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ", 'item 7a. ': 'QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information set forth pages - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . ', 'item 8. ': "FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA The following financial statements and supplement data for the Company and independent auditors' report set forth pages and - the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit .. Income Statements for the three years ended June , . Cash Flows Statements for the three years ended June , . Balance Sheets June , and . Stockholders' Equity Statements for the three years ended June , . Notes Financial Statements. Independent Auditors' Report ", 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES None. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates............ Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer........... President Robert . Herbold........... Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins..... Group Vice President, Interactive Media Paul . Maritz.............. Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications Nathan . Myhrvold.......... Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Jeffrey . Raikes........... Group Vice President, Sales and Support James . Allchin............ Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems Orlando Ayala Lozano........ Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas Region Joachim Kempin.............. Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet Customer Unit, Embedded Systems Michel Lacombe.............. Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; President, Microsoft Europe Robert . Muglia............ Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools Division Craig Mundie................ Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division William . Neukom........... Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Bernard . Vergnes.......... Senior Vice President, Microsoft; Chairman, Microsoft Europe Gregory . Maffei........... Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named President July and had been Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Interactive Media Group October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications October and had been Group Vice President, Platforms since May . had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President and Chief Technology Officer October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and had been Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology since July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Support July . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems February . was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Senior Vice President South Pacific and Americas Region February . had been Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet Customer Unit, Embedded Systems February . had been Senior Vice President, OEM Sales since August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Lacombe President, Microsoft Europe. was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region February . had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July . had been Vice President, Europe since September and Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April . . Lacombe had been Regional Director Southern Europe from May . . Lacombe joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools Division February . had been Vice President the Server Applications Division since and was Vice President Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Vergnes Senior Vice President and Chairman, Microsoft Europe. was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . . Maffei was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer July . was named Vice President, Corporate Development July and Treasurer April . joined Microsoft April Director, Business Development & Investments. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth Notes Financial Statements -- Acquisition page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES PURSUANT THE REQUIREMENTS SECTION ( ) THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT , THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT SIGNED ITS BEHALF THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, THE CITY REDMOND, STATE WASHINGTON, SEPTEMBER , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Gregory . Maffei _____________________________________ Gregory . Maffei Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer PURSUANT THE REQUIREMENTS THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT , THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW THE FOLLOWING PERSONS BEHALF THE REGISTRANT AND THE CAPACITIES INDICATED SEPTEMBER , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors and ______________________________________ Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Paul . Allen / / Jill . Barad Director ______________________________________ Jill . Barad / / Richard . Hackborn Director ______________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ______________________________________ David . Marquardt / / Robert . \'Brien Director ______________________________________ Robert . \'Brien / / . . Reed, . Director ______________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ______________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / Gregory . Maffei Vice President, Finance; Chief ______________________________________ Financial Officer (Principal Financial Gregory . Maffei and Accounting Officer) EXHIBIT INDEX NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------ ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. The executive officers Microsoft September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY ---- --- ------------------------- William . Gates............ Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer........... President Robert . Herbold........... Executive Vice President; Chief Operating Officer Frank . (Pete) Higgins..... Group Vice President, Interactive Media Paul . Maritz.............. Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications Nathan . Myhrvold.......... Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Jeffrey . Raikes........... Group Vice President, Sales and Support James . Allchin............ Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems Orlando Ayala Lozano........ Senior Vice President, South Pacific and Americas Region Joachim Kempin.............. Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet Customer Unit, Embedded Systems Michel Lacombe.............. Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region; President, Microsoft Europe Robert . Muglia............ Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools Division Craig Mundie................ Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division William . Neukom........... Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Secretary Bernard . Vergnes.......... Senior Vice President, Microsoft; Chairman, Microsoft Europe Gregory . Maffei........... Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer . Gates -founded Microsoft and has been its Chairman the Board and Chief Executive Officer since the original partnership was incorporated . . Ballmer was named President July and had been Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. joined Microsoft . . Herbold joined Microsoft Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer November . . Herbold had been with The Procter & Gamble Company since , with experience information services, advertising and market research. Most recently, was & \' Senior Vice President, Information Services and Advertising. . Higgins was named Group Vice President, Interactive Media Group October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since . . Higgins joined Microsoft . . Maritz was named Group Vice President, Platforms and Applications October and had been Group Vice President, Platforms since May . had been Senior Vice President, Product and Technology Strategy November and had been Senior Vice President, Systems Division since February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft . . Myhrvold was named Group Vice President and Chief Technology Officer October . was named Group Vice President, Applications and Content May and had been Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology since July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Sales and Support July . had been Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing since July . was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January and had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems February . was named Senior Vice President, Business Systems Division November and had been Vice President, Business Systems Division, since July . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Ayala was named Senior Vice President South Pacific and Americas Region February . had been Vice President the developing markets Africa, India, the Mediterranean and Middle East, Latin America, Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. joined Microsoft May Senior Director the Latin America Region. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM, Internet Customer Unit, Embedded Systems February . had been Senior Vice President, OEM Sales since August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin joined Microsoft . . Lacombe President, Microsoft Europe. was named Senior Vice President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region February . had been President, Microsoft Europe and Senior Vice President, Microsoft since July . had been Vice President, Europe since September and Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe since April . . Lacombe had been Regional Director Southern Europe from May . . Lacombe joined Microsoft . . Muglia was named Senior Vice President, Applications and Tools Division February . had been Vice President the Server Applications Division since and was Vice President Developer Tools since . joined Microsoft January . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms Division February . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Systems May and had been Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology since July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology December . . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined Microsoft Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs. . Vergnes Senior Vice President and Chairman, Microsoft Europe. was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes joined Microsoft . . Maffei was named Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer July . was named Vice President, Corporate Development July and Treasurer April . joined Microsoft April Director, Business Development & Investments. ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth Notes Financial Statements -- Acquisition page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference and filed herewith Exhibit . PART ', 'item 14. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibit Listing EXHIBIT NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein. SIGNATURES PURSUANT THE REQUIREMENTS SECTION ( ) THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT , THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT SIGNED ITS BEHALF THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, THE CITY REDMOND, STATE WASHINGTON, SEPTEMBER , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Gregory . Maffei _____________________________________ Gregory . Maffei Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer PURSUANT THE REQUIREMENTS THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT , THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW THE FOLLOWING PERSONS BEHALF THE REGISTRANT AND THE CAPACITIES INDICATED SEPTEMBER , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors and ______________________________________ Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director ______________________________________ Paul . Allen / / Jill . Barad Director ______________________________________ Jill . Barad / / Richard . Hackborn Director ______________________________________ Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director ______________________________________ David . Marquardt / / Robert . \'Brien Director ______________________________________ Robert . \'Brien / / . . Reed, . Director ______________________________________ . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director ______________________________________ Jon . Shirley / / Gregory . Maffei Vice President, Finance; Chief ______________________________________ Financial Officer (Principal Financial Gregory . Maffei and Accounting Officer) EXHIBIT INDEX NUMBER DESCRIPTION ------ ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation ( ) Bylaws ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share ( ) Quarterly and Market Information Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Shareholders (" Annual Report") Selected Financial Data Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report Management\' Discussion and Analysis Results Operations and Financial Condition Incorporated Reference Pages - Annual Report Financial Statements Incorporated Reference Pages and - Annual Report . Subsidiaries Registrant Incorporated Reference Page Annual Report . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule - -------- ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Exhibit filed herein', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}