{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates, and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97\x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Forward-Looking Statements.\x94 Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July and today offers Earth\x92 Biggest Selection. seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online, and endeavor offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon com and its affiliates operate retail websites, including: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . addition, operate other websites, including www com and www alexa com that enable search and navigation; www imdb com , comprehensive movie database; and Amazon Mechanical Turk www mturk com which provides web service for computers integrate network humans directly into their processes. The operating results these websites are included our North America segment. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Segment Information.\x94 Business Strategy Our business strategy relentlessly focus customer experience offering our customers low prices, convenience, and wide selection merchandise, provide -commerce solutions and services other businesses and offer web services applications developers. Price endeavor offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and free shipping offers. also strive improve our operating efficiencies that can pass along the associated savings our customers the form lower prices. enable third-party sellers offer products our sites, many instances alongside our product selection, and set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software engineers, computer scientists, and management team focus continuous innovation provide further convenience for our customers. work earn repeat purchases providing easy- -use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, timely customer service, feature-rich content, and trusted transaction environment. Key features our websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; gift guides; Web pages tailored individual preferences, such recommendations and notifications; -Click ® technology; secure payment systems; image uploads; digital content; searching our websites well the Internet; browsing; and the ability view selected interior pages and citations, and search the entire contents many the books offer with our \x93Look Inside the Book\x94 and \x93Search Inside the Book\x94 features. Our community online customers also creates feature-rich content, including product reviews, online recommendation lists, wish lists, buying guides, and wedding and baby registries. endeavor fulfill customer orders quickly, and provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. communicate our fulfillment promise several ways, such presenting - -date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, well delivery shipment notifications. Additionally, customers can use the \x93Your Account\x94 website features track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through our . and international fulfillment centers and warehouses; through fulfillment centers operated under -sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www amazon ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment providers supporting www amazon ; and through other third-party fulfillment arrangements. operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented several -sourcing customer service arrangements with third parties. See Item Part , \x93Properties,\x94 for additional information about fulfillment centers and customer service locations. Selection provide the widest possible selection for our customers worldwide, have designed our websites enable millions unique products sold and third parties across dozens product categories such : \x95 Apparel, shoes, and accessories \x95 Home, garden, and outdoor living products \x95 Baby care products \x95 Jewelry and watches \x95 Beauty \x95 Kitchenware and housewares \x95 Books \x95 Magazine subscriptions \x95 Camera and photography \x95 Music and musical instruments \x95 Cell phones and service \x95 Office products \x95 Computers and computer add-ons \x95 Software \x95 Consumer electronics \x95 Sports and outdoors \x95 DVDs, including rentals and videos \x95 Tools and hardware \x95 Gourmet food \x95 Toys and video games \x95 Health and personal care Amazon com Retail source and sell broad range products our customers worldwide across dozens product categories. Additionally, through our Syndicated Stores program, utilize our -commerce services, features, and technologies sell our products through other businesses\x92 websites, such www borders com . Third-Party Sellers Through Amazon Services, offer Amazon Marketplace and Merchants@ programs that enable third parties sell their products our websites, allow customers shop for products owned third parties using our features and technologies, and allow individuals complete transactions that include multiple sellers single checkout process. are not the seller record these third-party seller transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Amazon Marketplace generally serves individuals and small businesses, enabling them offer their products for sale our websites alongside our products and products made available other third-party sellers. Our Merchants@ program generally serves larger, branded businesses and primarily focused expanding the selection new products available our websites. also sometimes offer fulfillment-related services third-party sellers. Services Amazon Enterprise Solutions (formerly known Merchant com) provides third party retailers with back-end -commerce and fulfillment solutions enable third party -commerce businesses operating under their own brand name and website address ( . www target com ). also offer web services applications developers. addition, have -branded credit card agreements and marketing and promotional services, such online advertising. Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy designed increase customer traffic our websites, drive awareness products and services offer, promote repeat purchases, develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities, and strengthen and broaden the Amazon com brand name. believe our most effective marketing efforts result from our focus continuously improving the customer experience, which drives word- -mouth promotion and repeat customer visits. also deliver personalized Web pages and services and employ variety media, business development activities, and promotional methods. employ various means advertising, which consist primarily online advertising, including through our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors and other third parties. Our Associates program directs customers our websites enabling independent websites make millions products available their audiences with fulfillment performed third parties. pay commissions hundreds thousands participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales. offer everyday free shipping options worldwide and the . also offer Amazon Prime, membership program which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. Although marketing expenses not include the costs our free shipping promotional offers, view such offers effective marketing tools. Technology Using our own proprietary technologies, well technology licensed from third parties, have implemented numerous features and functionality that simplify and improve the customer shopping experience, enable third parties sell our platform, and facilitate our fulfillment and customer service operations. Our current strategy focus our development efforts continuous innovation creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business, and license acquire commercially-developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. continually invest several areas technology, including search technologies, seller platforms, web services, and digital initiatives. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing inventory and assigning customer orders, and ensuring proper shipment products customers. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, multiple shipping addresses, gift-wrapping requests, and multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability and track the progress each order. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing, and completing customer payment transactions, which vary geography, but include credit cards and electronic fund transfers, among other payment mechanisms. Competition The environment for our products and services intensely competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, catalog retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors and manufacturers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume, and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order, direct marketing; ( ) other online -commerce sites; ( ) number indirect competitors, including media companies, Web portals, comparison shopping websites, and Web search engines, either directly collaboration with other retailers; and ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website development; third-party fulfillment and customer-service. believe that the principal competitive factors our market segments include selection, price, availability, convenience, information, discovery, brand recognition, personalized services, accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use, and ability adapt changing conditions, well our customers\x92 overall experience and trust transactions with and facilitated behalf third-party sellers. For services offer business and individual sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality our services and tools, our ability facilitate sales for third parties serve, and the speed performance for our services. Other companies also may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered number domain names and been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents, and copyrights . and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights the . and internationally, and have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technologies copyrighted materials, third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel seasonal basis. None our employees represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. believe that our future success will depend part our continued ability attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com . make available this website under \x93Financial Documents,\x94 free charge, our annual reports Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and amendments those reports soon reasonably practicable after electronically file furnish such materials the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors February , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Richard . Dalzell Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer Mark . Peek Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Kal Raman Senior Vice President, Worldwide Hardlines Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and again from October the present. Richard . Dalzell. . Dalzell has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November . From October until November , . Dalzell was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer and, from August until October , was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Dalzell was Vice President Information Systems Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Mark . Peek. . Peek has served Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since July . From November July , served Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April November , served Vice President, Finance, and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November . From joining Amazon com February until November , . Piacentini was Senior Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, Apple Computer, Inc. Kal Raman. . Raman (also known Kalyanaraman Srinivasan) has served Senior Vice President Worldwide Hardlines since September . Prior joining Amazon com, . Raman was President and CEO drugstore com from April June , and Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from November April . Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November . Prior joining Amazon com, . Szkutak held variety positions General Electric ., including Chief Financial Officer Lighting from September September , and Finance Director Plastics Europe from March September . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations since January . From October until January , . Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior that had been Vice President and General Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon com September . Prior joining Amazon com, . Wilke was Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit Allied Signal. . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since June . She served Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel, and Secretary from March until June , and Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from July until March . Prior joining Amazon com, . Wilson was partner the law firm Perkins Coie LLP. Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director, Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown Chief Scientist Xerox Corporation (retired) and Visiting Scholar the Annenberg Center for Communication the University Southern California . John Doerr General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers William . Gordon Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer, Electronic Arts, Inc. Myrtle . Potter Consultant, Myrtle Potter Consulting, LLC Thomas . Ryder Chairman, Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer Chief Executive Officer, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could materially adversely affected. Face Intense Competition The market segments which compete are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including both the retail and -commerce services industries. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors both the retail and -commerce services industries also may able devote more resources technology development, fulfillment, and marketing than . Competition the -commerce channel may intensify. Other companies the retail and -commerce service industries may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may expand into the market segments which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies, including search, web services, and digital, may further intensify the competitive nature online retail and -commerce services. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, both. Our Expansion Places Significant Strain our Management, Operational, Financial and Other Resources are rapidly and significantly expanding our operations both domestically and internationally and will continue expand further pursue growth our product and service offerings and customer base. Such expansion increases the complexity our business and places significant strain our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and there can assurance that will able manage effectively. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations, especially employ personnel multiple geographic locations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. Our Expansion into New Product Areas and Geographic Regions Subjects Business and Competitive Risks not expect benefit our newer market segments, whether products, services new geographic areas, from the first- -market advantage that experienced the . online book channel. Our gross profits our newer business activities may lower than our older business activities. addition, may have limited experience new product and service activities and new geographic areas, and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. Our newer market segments may present special technology challenges that have not faced before. the extent pursue commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic alliances facilitate new product service activities geographic expansion, the agreements, acquisitions and alliances may not successful. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Rate Growth Due our limited operating history, our evolving business model, and the unpredictability our industry, may not able accurately forecast our rate growth. base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans estimates future net sales and rate growth. significant portion our expenses and investments fixed, and may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our net sales fall short our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products and services offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions throughout the world. softening demand, whether caused changes consumer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth. Such events could create delays , and increase the cost , product shipments, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability expand our network sellers, and enter into, maintain, renew, and amend favorable terms our commercial agreements and strategic alliances; \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations, particularly international sales become increasingly larger contributor our revenues; \x95 our ability acquire merchandise, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction our current future competitors websites, products, services, price decreases, improvements; \x95 changes usage the Internet and -commerce, including non- . markets; \x95 timing, effectiveness, and costs upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the effects commercial agreements and strategic alliances and our ability successfully implement the underlying relationships and integrate them into our business; \x95 the effects acquisitions, and other business combinations and our ability successfully integrate them into our business; \x95 the success our geographic and product line expansions; \x95 the outcomes legal proceedings and claims; \x95 technical difficulties, system downtime, interruptions; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 disruptions service shipping carriers; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping, continue reduce product prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits our customers which reduce our gross operating profits; \x95 the extent which invest technology and content, fulfillment, marketing and other expense categories; \x95 the extent which provide for and pay taxes; \x95 increases the prices fuel and gasoline, which are used the transportation packages, well increases the prices other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, and commodities like paper and packing supplies, all which are used our operating facilities; \x95 the extent which operators the networks between our customers and our websites successfully charge fees grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access our online services; and \x95 the extent which overall Internet use affected spyware, viruses, and \x93phishing,\x94 spoofing and other spam emails directed Internet users, viruses and \x93denial service\x94 attacks directed Internet companies and service providers, and other events. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales almost all our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments Our international activities are significant our revenues and profits and plan, over time, continue expand our reach international market segments. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing, and distributing products services for these future market segments and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized websites, stores, and other systems. may not succeed these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not profitable sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject number risks inherent selling abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs) and restrictions the level foreign ownership; \x95 restrictions sales certain products services and uncertainty regarding our liability for the products services offer and content provided our users, including uncertainty result less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the distribution media products and enforcement intellectual property rights; \x95 import, export, other business licensing requirements; \x95 limitations the repatriation funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; \x95 difficulty obtaining distribution and support; \x95 nationalization restrictions foreign ownership; \x95 shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact cash flow; \x95 consumer and data protection laws and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower levels adoption use the Internet and other technologies vital our business and the lack appropriate infrastructure support widespread Internet usage; \x95 lower levels consumer spending per capita basis and fewer opportunities for growth certain foreign market segments compared the .; \x95 lower levels credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty staffing, developing and managing number unique foreign operations result distance, language and cultural differences; \x95 different employee employer relationships and the existence workers\x92 councils and labor unions; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, and loans; \x95 tax and other laws the . and other jurisdictions; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel continues grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand name recognition. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate -commerce other online services such areas licenses, content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, distribution. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international market segments. , acquired Joyo com, which organized under the laws the British Virgin Islands and operates www joyo com and www joyo com the People\x92 Republic China (\x93PRC\x94) cooperation with PRC subsidiary and PRC affiliates. The PRC regulates Joyo com\x92 business through regulations and license requirements restricting ( ) the scope foreign investment the Internet, retail and delivery sectors, ( ) Internet content and (iii) the sale certain media products. order meet the PRC local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, Joyo com\x92 business operated through PRC subsidiary which acts cooperation with PRC companies owned nominee shareholders who are PRC nationals. Although believe Joyo com\x92 structure complies with existing PRC laws, involves unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation PRC laws and regulations, and possible that the PRC government will ultimately take view contrary ours. Joyo com its subsidiary affiliates were found violation any existing future PRC laws regulations interpretations those laws and regulations were change, the business could subject fines and other financial penalties, have its licenses revoked forced shut down entirely. addition, Joyo com were unable enforce its contractual relationships with respect management and control its business, might unable continue operate the business. addition, Joyo com subject many the risks described \x93Our Business Could Suffer are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments.\x94 Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. Because difficult predict demand, may not manage our facilities optimal way, which may result excess insufficient inventory warehousing, fulfillment, and distribution capacity. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost requiring make long-zone shipments partial shipments from one more locations. Orders from several our internationally-focused websites are fulfilled primarily from single fulfillment center, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. continue add fulfillment and warehouse capability add new businesses with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating becomes more challenging. There can assurance that will able operate our network effectively. rely limited number shipping companies deliver inventory our fulfillment centers and completed orders our customers. are not able negotiate acceptable terms with these companies they experience performance problems other difficulties, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. addition, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders customers also may negatively affected inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism, acts God and similar factors. Third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality, and future procurement their services. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability failure these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the fourth quarter our fiscal year. not stock popular products sufficient amounts fail have sources timely restock popular products, such that fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make long-zone shipments partial shipments from one more locations. Orders from several our internationally-focused websites are fulfilled primarily from single fulfillment center, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. may experience increase our net shipping cost due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased holiday other demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services our customers may unable meet the seasonal demand. Finally, , along with our customer service -sourcers, may unable adequately staff customer service centers. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance should decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result decline our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and other business relationships with other companies. have entered into agreements provide -commerce services other businesses and plan enter into similar agreements the future, including part our Merchants@, Syndicated Stores, and Amazon Enterprise Solutions program initiatives. Under such agreements, may perform services such : providing our technology services such search, browse, and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our websites; and powering third-party websites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may constrain the number such agreements are able enter into and may affect our ability integrate and deliver services under the relevant agreements. fail implement, maintain, and develop successfully the various components such commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing third-party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements partially dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. Therefore, the other business\x92 website product services offering not successful, may not receive all the compensation are otherwise due under the agreement may not able maintain the agreement. Moreover, may not able succeed our plans enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. our commercial agreements expire otherwise terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term the agreements, both. Some our agreements involve high margin services, such marketing and promotional agreements, and such agreements expire they may replaced, all, agreements involving lower margin services. addition, several past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable meet their obligations . may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. example, are currently litigation with Toysrus com over our commercial agreement, and Toysrus com\x92 parent, Toysrus, Inc., recently was acquired private investment group. the event the early termination our commercial agreement with Toysrus com, would attempt replace the product selection currently provided Toysrus com with owned inventory and offerings from other parties, but our operating results could negatively impacted. Our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment other relationships; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and \x95 difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments have acquired and invested number companies, and may acquire invest (such through joint ventures other business combinations) additional companies. Acquisitions and investments create risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel, resulting from, among other factors, changes compensation, responsibilities, reporting relationships, future prospects, and the direction the business; \x95 additional operating losses and expenses the businesses acquired which invested; \x95 the potential impairment amounts capitalized intangible assets part the acquisition; \x95 the potential impairment customer and other relationships the company acquired which invested our own customers result any integration operations; \x95 the difficulty incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related such integration; \x95 the difficulty integrating new company\x92 accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems permit effective management, and the lack control such integration delayed not implemented; \x95 the difficulty implementing controls, procedures and policies appropriate for larger public company companies that prior acquisition investment had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; \x95 potential unknown liabilities associated with company acquire which invest; and \x95 for foreign acquisitions and investments, additional risks related the integration operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Finally, result future acquisitions mergers, might need issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related intangible assets, any which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. have expanded our international operations, our exposure exchange rate fluctuations has become more pronounced. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Results Operations\x97Effect Exchange Rates\x94 for table demonstrating the effect our consolidated statements operations from changes exchange rates versus the . Dollar. addition, our % PEACS are denominated Euros, not . Dollars. remeasure the principal the % PEACS quarterly based fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio and record gains losses \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. result, increases the Euro relative the . Dollar increase the . dollar amount owe interest and principal. Furthermore, hold cash equivalents and marketable securities primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. Accordingly, the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Investments and the Consideration Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Number Risks the past, have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances whereby perform certain -commerce services, and exchange for our services received cash, equity securities these companies, and additional benefits, such website traffic. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales made the other company. some cases, have also made separate investments the other company making cash payment exchange for equity securities that company. may make similar investments the future. the extent have received equity securities compensation, fluctuations the value such securities will affect our ultimate realization amounts have received compensation for services. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing revenue recognition these recorded unearned amounts was changed correspond with the terms the amended agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Our investments equity securities are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 and \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. regularly review all our investments public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines fair value. When determine that the decline fair value investment below our accounting basis other-than-temporary, reduce the carrying value the securities hold and record loss the amount any such decline. recent years, securities companies the Internet and -commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. may conclude future quarters that the fair values our investments have experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other assets.\x94 The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack Integration and Redundancy Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access our websites and the speed with which customer able navigate and make purchases our websites directly affects the volume goods sell and the services offer and thus affects our net sales. experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites unavailable slow respond and prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. are unable continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps improve the efficiency our systems, could cause system interruptions delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, would make our product offerings less attractive our customers and our service offerings less attractive third parties. While have backup systems for certain aspects our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage insurance limits compensate for losses from major interruption. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. Have Significant Indebtedness December , , had long-term indebtedness $ billion. make annual semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our two convertible notes, which are due and . Although made debt principal reduction payments, may incur substantial additional debt the future, and any event significant portion our future cash flow from operating activities likely remain dedicated the payment interest and the repayment principal our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions other purposes the future, needed; plan for, react , changes technology and our business and competition; and react the event economic downturn. There guarantee that will able meet our debt service obligations. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with covenants our indebtedness, will default. addition, may not able refinance our indebtedness terms acceptable , all. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Face Significant Inventory Risk are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product selection, and accurately forecast product demand. failure optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost requiring make split shipments from one more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery. result our third-party services relationships with Toysrus com, Babiesrus com, Target, and other companies, these parties identify, buy, and bear the financial risk inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. result, any these parties fail forecast product demand optimize maintain access inventory, would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could harmed. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use our proprietary rights inherently difficult, and may not able determine the existence extent any such unauthorized use. addition, third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps take protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights prevent third parties from infringing misappropriating our patents, trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets, and similar proprietary rights. also cannot certain that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that infringe their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms that are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. Have Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have relatively short operating history and rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : \x95 general economic conditions; \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments our competitors , business combinations and investments our competitors ; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes Internet regulation; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 additions departures key personnel; \x95 corporate restructurings, including layoffs closures facilities; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce companies; and \x95 transactions our common stock major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Any these events may cause our stock price rise fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Future volatility our stock price could force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. Government Regulation the Internet and -commerce Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and -commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision online payment services, unencumbered Internet access our services, and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply the Internet and -commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate \x93auctions\x94 and \x93auctioneers\x94 and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate other consumer- -consumer online markets, including certain aspects Amazon Marketplace. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Taxation Risks Could Subject Liability for Past Sales and Cause Our Future Sales Decrease not collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments most our goods into most states the . Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record the applicable merchandise and are obligated collect sales tax most states accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) applicable goods and services sold that are ordered our international sites. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies that engage -commerce. successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise services could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions the . Supreme Court restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit supersede the Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. any these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court\x92 constitutional concerns and resulted reversal its current position, could required collect sales and use taxes additional states. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for , put competitive disadvantage they not impose similar obligations all our online competitors and decrease our future sales. Our Vendor Relationships Subject Number Risks Although continue increase the number vendors that supply products and vendor accounts for % more our inventory purchases, have significant vendors that are important our sourcing. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current vendors were stop selling merchandise acceptable terms, may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some the products sell may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death, property damage caused such products, and may require take actions such product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also sell products using our -commerce platform that may increase our exposure product liability claims, such these sellers not have sufficient resources protect themselves from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our distributors, manufacturers, and third-party sellers not indemnify from product liability. Are Subject Number Risks Related Payments Accept accept payments variety methods, including credit card, debit card, gift certificates, direct debit from customer\x92 bank account, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. offer new payment options our customers, like direct debit the ., may subject additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For certain payment transactions, including credit and debit cards, pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. are also subject payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change reinterpreted make difficult impossible for comply. fail comply with these rules requirements, may subject fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, facilitate other types online payments, and our business and operating results could adversely affected. Finally, offer -branded credit card programs that represent significant component our services revenue and generate high margins. one more these agreements are terminated and are unable replace them similar terms, all, could adversely affect our operating results. Could Liable for Breaches Security Our Website fundamental requirement for -commerce the secure storage and transmission confidential information. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may adversely affect our operating results. Could Liable for Fraudulent Unlawful Activities Sellers The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the provision online payment services and could require changes the way this business conducted. Under Merchants@, Marketplace and certain other our programs, may unable prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered when the products received are materially different from the sellers\x92 descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, reimburse buyers for payments certain limits these situations and our third party sales grow, the cost this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. Any costs incur result liability because our A2Z Guarantee otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality our payments program depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, our payments program and our businesses that use may not viable. Finally, may unable prevent sellers our Merchants@, Marketplace, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and certain other programs from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner, violating the proprietary rights others, and could face civil criminal liability for unlawful activities our sellers. May Not Able Adapt Quickly Enough Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology the -commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing websites and proprietary technology obsolete. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties not own any real estate. December , , operated the following facilities throughout the world: Description Use Primary Locations Square Footage ( ) Operating Segments Lease Expirations ( ) ( thousands) Corporate office facilities California; Washington , North America From through Other corporate office facilities, including development centers China; France; Germany; India; Japan; Luxembourg; United Kingdom International From through Sub-total , Fulfillment and warehouse operations (iii) Arizona; Delaware; Kansas; Kentucky; Nevada; Pennsylvania; Texas , North America From through Fulfillment and warehouse operations China; France; Germany; Japan; United Kingdom , International From through Sub-total , Customer service and data centers North Dakota; Virginia; Washington; West Virginia North America From through Customer service and data centers China; Germany; India; Ireland; Japan; United Kingdom International From through Sub-total Total , ( ) Excludes sub-leased space. ( ) Most leases expiring have renewal features our option. (iii) Excludes facility operated under outsourced arrangement Canada. believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present needs, and periodically evaluate whether additional facilities are necessary. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company involved from time time claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). August , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and have been vigorously defending ourselves these matters. March , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the plaintiff class with respect the Act claims. July , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the plaintiff class with respect the Act claims. These settlements, which were approved the Court the fourth quarter , dispose all claims asserted these lawsuits exchange for payments totaling $ million, substantially all which expect funded our insurers. October , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. November , the Court dismissed all the plaintiff\x92 claims with prejudice. The plaintiff appealing that dismissal. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint, and will continue defend ourselves vigorously this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois and Nevada, private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. January , IPXL Holdings, LLC brought action against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges that aspects our online ordering technology, including -Click ® ordering, infringe patent obtained IPXL purporting cover \x93Electronic Fund Transfer Transaction System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. August , the Court entered judgment Amazon com\x92 favor the grounds that the patent claims asserted the plaintiff were invalid and that Amazon com\x92 technology did not infringe those claims any event. The judgment our favor was affirmed the Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit November . April , learned that the French authorities are investigating our DVD sales practices France, and are cooperating. May , Toysrus com LLC filed complaint against for breach contract the Superior Court New Jersey. The complaint alleges that breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus com LLC selling, and permitting other third parties sell, products that Toysrus com LLC alleges has exclusive right sell our website. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, declaratory judgment, termination the agreement, and monetary damages excess $ million. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and have brought counterclaims alleging breach contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial both parties\x92 claims concluded November , and decision the Court pending. September , BTG International Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our Associates program, infringes two patents obtained BTG purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93Attaching Navigational History Information Universal Resource Locator Links World Wide Web Page\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and for \x93Tracking the Navigation Path User the World Wide Web\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October Cendant Publishing, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleged that our website technology, including our recommendations features, infringes patent obtained Cendant purporting cover \x93System and Method for Providing Recommendation Goods Services Based Recorded Purchasing History\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and sought injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. February , Cendant voluntarily withdrew the complaint without prejudice. June , however, Cendant -filed new complaint containing substantially the same claims. response, filed countersuit the United States District Court for the Western District Washington (since transferred the District Delaware) alleging that Cendant\x92 parent, Cendant Corporation, and its affiliates Orbitz, Inc., Budget Rent Car System, Inc., Avis Rent Car System, Inc., and Trilegiant Corporation infringe certain patents owned and our subsidiary, com. dispute Cendant\x92 allegations wrongdoing its complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. December , Registrar Systems LLC filed complaint against and Target Corporation for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the method which Amazon com enables customers use Amazon com account information websites that Amazon com operates for third parties, such Target com, infringes two patents obtained Registrar Systems purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our shareholders during the fourth quarter . PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders February , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there are much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( millions, except per share data) Income Statement: Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Income (loss) before change accounting principle ( ) ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 ( ) Net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 ( ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic Diluted December , ( millions) Balance Sheet: Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt and other $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) For further discussion earnings (loss) per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, fulfillment center optimization, seasonality, the degree which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, risks inventory management, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item . Part , \x93Risk Factors,\x94 which, along with the previous discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers . The products offered our websites include products have purchased from distributors, publishers, and manufacturers and products offered third parties our websites. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory and recognize our net share revenue items sold third parties. offer services such Amazon Enterprise Solutions, -branded credit cards, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional offers. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . Free cash flow driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures. Increases operating income result from increases sales through our websites and focus keeping our operating costs low, offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives including hiring additional software engineers and computer scientists. increase sales, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery times, increasing selection, expanding product information, improving ease use, and earning customer trust. generally focus gross profit and operating profit dollars rather than margin percentages. Because have deferred tax assets from net operating loss carryforwards, the free cash flow impact from income taxes paid less than our income tax provision. also seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings and aligning employee interests with shareholders\x92. moved restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation late because believe they better align the interests our shareholders and employees. Restricted stock units result charges our income statement based the fair value the awards the grant date recorded over the underlying service periods, net estimated cancellations. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million December , , compared with million December , and million December , . These totals include all stock awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures, consisting vested and unvested awards, and -the-money and out- -the-money stock options. seek reduce our customer experience variable costs per unit and work leverage our customer experience fixed costs. Our customer experience variable costs include product costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and most aspects our marketing costs. Our customer experience fixed costs include the costs necessary build, enhance, and add features our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally increase depending the timing capacity needs, geographic expansion, and other factors. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct publisher and manufacturer sourcing, maximize discounts available from suppliers and reduce defects our processes. minimize growth fixed costs, seek improve process efficiencies and maintain lean culture. Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. Because our model are able turn our inventory quickly and have negative operating cycle . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , and for , , and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our product mix, our mix third-party sales, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our future investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and for , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix third-party sales, the mix suppliers, seasonality, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect negotiating better pricing from our suppliers exchange for shorter payment terms. Our spending technology and content will increase add computer scientists and software engineers continue improve our process efficiency, enhance the customer experience our websites and those websites powered and invest several areas technology including seller platforms, search, web services, and digital initiatives . believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the improved consumer experience the Internet outside the workplace through lower-cost broadband service the home, and the advances wireless connectivity, will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people\x92 lives. Our challenge will continue build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage continued advances technology. Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends . For example, the . Dollar weakens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales, gross profit, and operating expenses will higher than currencies had remained constant. Likewise, the . Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales, gross profit, and operating expenses will lower than currencies had remained constant. believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long term. also believe important evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect currency changes. addition, the remeasurement our % PEACS and intercompany balances can result significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer Item Part , \x93Financial Statements\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (\x93GAAP\x94) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need The operating cycle number days sales inventory plus number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Inventory turnover the quotient annualized cost sales average inventory over five quarters. Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable cost sales, multiplied the number days the period. make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary party obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Under our Syndicated Stores arrangements, record gross product sales and costs since own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contracts that generally provide for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals, Amazon Prime, and other membership programs, are deferred and classified \x93Unearned revenue\x94 our consolidated balance sheets and recognized revenue over the subscription term. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are classified offsetting amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. When are responsible for fulfillment-related services, commissions are recognized when risk loss and title transfer the customer. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our agreements. those arrangements, well other product sales third parties, the third-party maintains ownership the related products. Internal-Use Software Included fixed assets the capitalized cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. required Statement Position - , \x93Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use,\x94 capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage internal-use software and amortize these costs over the estimated useful life two years. Costs incurred related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. During , and capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million, and $ million costs associated with internal-use software and website development, which are partially offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million and $ million. Currency Effect Intercompany Balances provision Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, which settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. Prior the fourth quarter , currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were recorded stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurements intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. accordance with SFAS . , currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter continue included component \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. Resulting from the remeasurement intercompany balances using exchange rates the reporting dates, recorded loss $ million , and gains $ million and $ million and . Valuation Deferred Tax Assets Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. December , , our deferred tax assets, net deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, were $ million, which includes $ million relating net operating loss carryforwards (\x93NOLs\x94) that are primarily attributed stock-based compensation. The majority our NOLs begin expire . Additionally, have elected present our NOL deferred tax assets attributed stock-based compensation net the related allowance the adoption SFAS ( ). Total gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs December , were $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs). SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. accordance with the provisions SFAS , allocate our valuation allowance current and long-term deferred tax assets pro-rata basis. recorded tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, determined year end that certain our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. The range possible judgments relating valuation our deferred tax assets very wide. For example, had determined that the weight available evidence did not support decision that these deferred tax assets are realizable; the \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 would have been expense $ million for rather than expense $ million for the same period. December , continue have valuation allowance $ million, which relates primarily deferred tax assets that would only realizable upon the occurrence future capital gains. Stock-Based Compensation January , , early adopted SFAS ( ), which requires measure compensation cost for stock awards fair value and recognize compensation over the service period for awards expected vest. The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . Free cash flow was $ million for , which includes the effect $ million patent litigation settlement, compared $ million and $ million for and . Operating cash flows and free cash flows can volatile and are sensitive many factors, including changes working capital and timing capital expenditures. Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, the timing expense payments, discounts offered vendors, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, fair value, were $ billion and $ billion the end and . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ million and $ million the end and , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. Prior the adoption SFAS ( ), cash retained result tax deductions relating stock-based compensation was presented operating cash flows, along with other tax cash flows. SFAS ( ) supersedes prior guidance and requires tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions prospectively presented the statement cash flows financing cash inflows, which effectively reclassification between operating cash flows and financing cash flows versus prior presentation. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions excess amounts reported for financial reporting purposes were $ million, $ million, and $ million for December , , , and , with the amount for treated financing cash flows the detriment operating cash flow. expect the corresponding amount for increase substantially and possibly excess $ million, although the actual amount Free cash flow defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. subject considerable variability. Accordingly, amounts presented for operating cash flows and free cash flows for will negatively effected comparison prior results; however, the underlying economic substance not effected this change reporting classification. Cash provided operating activities was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers, from third-party sellers, and from non-retail activities such through our -branded credit card agreements, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements, offset cash payments make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized pursuant SOP - that are reflected cash used investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers, third-party sellers and non-retail activities generally corresponds our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash paid inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost sales, adjusted for increases decreases inventory and payable levels well increases decreases vendor-related receivables for -operative marketing, volume rebates, and other incentives. During , cash paid inventory suppliers, totaled $ billion, compared $ billion and $ billion and . Cash paid inventory suppliers also affected our efforts add product categories, increase selection products offer for sale, improve availability both existing and new product categories, and take advantage additional discounts offered suppliers. Cash provided operating activities was negatively affected the $ million patent litigation settlement third quarter . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income).\x94 Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities, net cash flows from acquisitions, and purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Net cash used investing activities was $ million and $ million and , while cash provided investing activities was $ million with the variability caused primarily purchases, maturities, and sales marketable securities. Capital expenditures were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , with the sequential increases primarily reflecting additional investment development new features and product offerings our websites, well investments fulfillment-related assets and technology infrastructure. Capital expenditures included $ million, $ million and $ million for internal-use software and website development during , and . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient keep our facilities and equipment suitable operating condition. also purchased certain companies and resulting cash payments, net acquired cash, $ million and $ million. Net cash used financing activities was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Cash outflows from financing activities result from repayments long-term debt and payments capital lease obligations, which were $ million , $ million , and $ million . During , repaid \x80 million our % PEACS for $ million. During , repaid $ million redeem portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from exercises employee stock options, which were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . expect cash proceeds from exercises stock options will continue decline over time continue issuing restricted stock units our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. recorded net tax provision $ million, and recorded net tax benefit $ million. majority this provision and benefit non-cash have deferred tax assets resulting from our history net operating losses. February , announced plans redeem \x80 million principal our % PEACS, which expected close March , , for cash payment approximately $ million ( the Euro . dollar exchange rate January , ), which includes $ million interest. Under the indenture governing the % PEACS, premium required. Additionally, February , our Board Directors authorized new debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization its entirety, pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. Since our % PEACS, which are due , are denominated Euros, our . Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro . Dollar exchange rate. result, any fluctuations the exchange rate will have effect our interest expense and, the extent make principal payments, the amount . Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable our % PEACS due Euros, the balance interest payable subject gains losses currency movements until the date the interest payment. Gains losses the remeasurement our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified \x93Other income, net\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Our inventory turnover was and for and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time affected several factors, including our product mix, our mix third-party sales, and the extent choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers, among other factors. The decline inventory turnover primarily attributed our emphasis maintaining wide merchandise selection -stock inventory, which enables faster delivery products our customers. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments December , : Thereafter Total ( millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other ( ) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ , Debt interest ( ) \x97 Capital leases Operating leases ( )( ) Purchase obligations ( ) Total commitments $ $ $ $ , $ $ $ , ( ) December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due changes the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation under the % PEACS since issuance February has increased $ million December , . The principal and interest commitments reflect the partial redemptions the % PEACS and % Convertible Subordinated Notes. Additionally, March , , will redeem \x80 million our outstanding % PEACS, which not reflected the table above. ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate totaling $ million. had applied our equipment operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional obligations our balance sheet December , . ( ) Includes $ million related restructuring-related leases and other commitments, consisting $ million due within months and included \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities,\x94 and $ million due after months and included \x93Long-term debt and other\x94 our balance sheets. These amounts are net anticipated sublease income $ million. ( ) Consists legally-binding commitments purchase inventory and significant non-inventory commitments. Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our cash equivalents marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases; with fluctuations our market capitalization, which common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock; and based our credit-rating. Information about collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby Letters Credit ( ) Line Credit ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( millions) Balance December , $ $ $ $ Net change collateral pledged ( ) Balance December , ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Pursuant available standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. ( ) Pursuant available line credit totaling $ million, whereby collateral required pledged % the outstanding balance. ( ) The required amount collateral pledged certain our real estate leases fluctuates based our market capitalization. December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. The required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion and additional $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion. ( ) Includes $ million cash equivalents pledged collateral. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that additional lines- -credit financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net Sales: North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America % % % International Consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect exchange rates: North America % % % International Consolidated Net Sales Mix: North America % % % International Consolidated % % % Revenue increased % , due acceleration revenue growth our North America segment, offset slower revenue growth our International segment, representing decrease from % revenue growth and % revenue growth . Excluding the effect exchange rates, revenue growth was %, %, and % for , , and . Changes currency exchange rates negatively affected net sales $ million, and positively affected net sales $ million and $ million for and . For discussion the effect revenue growth changes exchange rates, see \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below. North America revenue growth rates increased % , compared % growth rates and . The increased growth rate primarily reflects increase unit sales driven our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our free shipping offers and increased selection such through additions our product categories, well increases our service-related revenues, particularly from Amazon Enterprise Solutions and from our -branded credit card agreement. Changes currency exchange rates positively affected , , and net sales for our North America segment $ million, $ million, and $ million. International revenue growth rates declined % , compared % and % growth rates and . This decrease revenue growth primarily due changes currency exchange rates, which negatively affected revenue growth $ million for and positively affected revenue growth $ million and $ million for and . Additionally, revenue growth was affected declining revenue growth rates certain product categories, primarily media. Excluding the effect exchange rates, revenue growth was %, %, and % for , , and . endeavor increase sales over time continuing offer low prices, including from free shipping, convenience, including new and innovative features such personalization, -Click, and Search Inside the Book, and broad product availability and selection, including from new product categories and from third-party sales. expect that, over time, our International segment will represent % more our consolidated net sales. Additionally, continue offer increased selection, lower prices, and additional product lines within our Electronics and other general merchandise category, expect see the relative mix sales from this category increase. See \x93Supplemental Information\x94 below. Gross profit information follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Gross Profit: North America $ , $ , $ International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Gross Profit Growth Rate: North America % % % International Consolidated Gross Margin: North America % % % International Consolidated The increase gross profit absolute terms during , compared and , corresponds with increases sales, including increases sales third-party sellers, increases amounts earned from our -branded credit card agreements, and increases amounts earned from Amazon Enterprise Solutions, offset our free shipping offers and lower prices for customers. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including our product, service, and geographic mix sales; sales volumes third-party sellers; changes vendor pricing, including the extent which receive discounts and allowances; lowering prices for customers, including from competitive pricing decisions; improvements product sourcing and inventory management; and the extent which our customers accept our free shipping and membership offers. Such free shipping and membership offers reduce shipping revenue and reduce our gross margins retail sales. Amazon Prime, introduced , shipping membership program which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. have offered free membership trials for Amazon Prime, and expect continue offer these trials the future. view our shipping offers effective worldwide marketing tool and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Sales products third-party sellers our websites continue increase, representing %, %, and % unit sales , , and . Since revenues from these sales are recorded net amount, they generally result lower revenues but higher gross margin per unit. product sales third-party sellers continue increase, the higher gross margin attributes these sales will offset decreases our gross margins due lowering prices for customers over time offering price reductions, free shipping offers, and promotions. Gross profit growth also affected changes exchange rates\x97see \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 below. North America segment gross margins improved basis points compared resulting primarily from increases sales third-party sellers, increases amounts earned from our -branded credit card agreement, and increases amounts earned from service agreements, offset partially our efforts continue reducing prices for customers. Since focus profit dollars rather than margins, are largely neutral whether item sold third party. North America segment gross margin was consistent with . Changes mix product sales towards lower gross margin product categories and price reductions for our customers, including from our year-round free shipping offers, were offset partially increased sales volume third-party sellers and volume discounts receive from our product suppliers. International segment gross margins improved basis points compared resulting from several factors including increasing sales third-party sellers and increases discounts receive from our product suppliers, offset partially changes mix product sales and our efforts continue reducing prices for customers, including from our year-round free shipping offers. International segment gross margins declined basis points compared resulting from efforts continue reducing prices for customers, including from our free shipping offers, and from shift mix product sales towards lower gross margin product categories, offset partially increases sales volume third-party sellers. Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue ( )( ) $ $ $ Outbound shipping costs ( ) ( ) ( ) Net shipping cost $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue % % % Outbound shipping costs Net shipping cost Percent Net Sales: Shipping revenue % % % Outbound shipping costs ( ) ( ) ( ) Net shipping cost ( )% ( )% ( )% ( ) Outbound shipping charges customers not include amounts earned shipping activities third-party sellers where not provide the fulfillment service. ( ) Includes amounts earned from Amazon Prime membership program. believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success. One way offer lower prices through free-shipping offers that result net cost delivering products, well through membership Amazon Prime. the extent our customers accept and use our free shipping offers increasing rate, including memberships Amazon Prime, our net cost shipping will increase. seek partially mitigate the costs lowering prices over time through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. addition, anticipate that the costs lowering prices over time will partially mitigated the extent product sales third-party sellers continue increase. Supplemental information about our net sales follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net Sales: North America Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , Other ( ) Total North America $ , $ , $ , International Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise Other ( ) Total International $ , $ , $ , Consolidated Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) Total consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other ( ) Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated % % % ( ) Includes non-retail activities, such our -branded credit card agreements, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities. Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation was follows ( millions): Year ended December , Year ended December , Year ended December , Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Fulfillment $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Marketing ( ) ( ) ( ) Technology and content ( ) ( ) ( ) General and administrative ( ) ( ) ( ) Other operating expense \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 Total operating expenses $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing ( ) ( ) Technology and content ( ) General and administrative Percent Net Sales: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing Technology and content General and administrative See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Stock-Based Compensation.\x94 Fulfillment The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars during comparison with the prior years relates variable costs corresponding with sales volume and inventory levels; our mix product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs, including mix payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and costs from expanding fulfillment capacity. Fulfillment includes stock-based compensation $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Fulfillment costs percentage net sales may vary due several factors, such payment processing and related transaction costs, including those from our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, our level productivity and accuracy, changes volume units received and fulfilled, the extent utilize fulfillment services provided third parties, and our ability reduce customer service contacts per unit implementing improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features. The mix product sales affects fulfillment costs per shipment based variations shape and weight products sell. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with third-party seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction costs and our Guarantee costs associated with these transactions are higher percentage revenue versus our retail sales, our increasing third-party sales have higher fulfillment costs percent net sales. expanded our fulfillment capacity and through gains efficiencies well increases leased warehouse space. plan continue expanding our world-wide fulfillment capacity order meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales our own products well sales third parties where provide the fulfillment. expect absolute amounts spent fulfillment and fulfillment-related cost sales increase over time. Marketing direct customers our websites primarily through number targeted online marketing channels, such our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based growth sales and changes rates. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing expense. Marketing includes stock-based compensation $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Marketing costs increased absolute terms compared and . These increases correspond with revenue growth utilized variable online marketing channels, such our Associates program, sponsored search, and other variable marketing initiatives. While costs associated with free shipping are not included marketing expense, view free shipping offers effective worldwide marketing tool, and intend continue offering them indefinitely. expect absolute amounts spent marketing increase over time. Technology and Content significantly increased our spending technology and content , which corresponds with our focus several technology initiatives. have added significant number computer scientists and software engineers our staff that can continue enhance the customer experience our websites and those websites powered , improve our process efficiency, and invest several areas technology including seller platforms, search, web services, and digital initiatives. believe these initiatives that are funding are important our longer-term success. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Overview\x94 for discussion how management views the competitive landscape and importance innovation. intend continue investing areas technology and content continue add computer scientists and software engineers our staff, and expect absolute amounts spent technology and content increase over time. Technology and content includes stock-based compensation $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million, and $ million costs associated with internal-use software and website development, which are partially offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, content, and website development, net accumulated depreciation, were $ million and $ million December , and . Capitalized internal-use software amortized over useful life two years. significant majority our technology costs are incurred the . and most them are allocated our North America segment. General and Administrative The increase spending general and administrative compared and primarily due increases payroll and related expenses, professional fees, and legal costs, offset $ million credit for actual and expected reimbursement insurer certain legal costs previously incurred . General and administrative includes stock-based compensation $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . expect absolute amounts spent general and administrative increase over time. Stock-Based Compensation Prior January , , accounted for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting resulted compensation expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units their estimated fair value date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock, and for stock options the extent option exercise prices were set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent stock awards were subject exchange offer, other modifications, performance criteria, such awards were subject variable accounting treatment. the extent stock awards were forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense was reversed offset operating expenses. January , , early adopted SFAS . ( ) using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement compensation cost for all stock-based awards fair value date grant and recognition compensation over the service period for awards expected vest. The fair value restricted stock and restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock, and the fair value stock options determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for options footnote disclosures required under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method under SFAS ( ). The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. For example, the fourth quarter recorded benefit $ million, $ million net tax, $ per diluted share, representing the cumulative effect slightly increasing the rate forfeitures expected over the life issued stock awards based our historical experience. Additionally, because implemented SFAS ( ), longer have employee stock awards subject variable accounting treatment. The adoption SFAS ( ) resulted cumulative benefit from accounting change $ million , which reflects the net cumulative impact estimating future forfeitures the determination period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur previously permitted. Prior the adoption SFAS ( ), cash retained result tax deductions relating stock-based compensation was presented operating cash flows, along with other tax cash flows, accordance with the provisions EITF . - , Classification the Statement Cash Flows the Income Tax Benefit Received Company upon Exercise Nonqualified Employee Stock Option. SFAS ( ) supersedes EITF - , amends SFAS , Statement Cash Flows, and requires tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions prospectively presented the statement cash flows financing cash inflows, which effectively reclassification between operating cash flows and financing cash flows versus prior presentation. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions excess amounts reported for financial reporting purposes were $ million, $ million, and $ million for December , , , and , with the amount for treated financing cash flows the detriment operating cash flow. expect the corresponding amount for increase substantially and possibly excess $ million, although the actual amount subject considerable variability. Accordingly, amounts presented for operating cash flows and free cash flows for will negatively effected comparison prior results; however, the underlying economic substance not effected this change reporting classification. March , , the SEC published Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , which provides the Staff\x92 views variety matters relating stock-based payments. SAB requires stock-based compensation classified the same expense line items cash compensation. have reclassified stock-based compensation from prior periods correspond current period presentation within the same operating expense line items cash compensation paid employees. Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million during , , and . applied the fair value accounting provisions SFAS ( ) for compared with the application APB . , including variable accounting treatment certain awards, for and . Because the application different methods accounting well the effects variable accounting treatment and , stock-based compensation for not comparable prior periods. December , , there was $ million total unrecognized compensation cost, net forfeitures $ million, related unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. Other Operating Expense (Income) Other operating expense was $ million , primarily attributable our settlement patent lawsuit for $ million, well amortization other intangibles $ million. Other operating income was $ million for and other operating expense was $ million for , which includes restructuring-related credits, net, $ million and amortization other intangibles $ million and $ million and . During , determined that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which had been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting gain $ million for . Lease payments for this office space are expensed over the lease period and classified the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. , streamlined our organizational structure France reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused eliminating French-office positions managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number employees affected totaled and resulted severance costs $ million classified \x93Other operating expense (income)\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Income from Operations Our income from operations was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and . The decrease from primarily result increase spending for technology and content, increase stock-based compensation that now recorded under SFAS ( ) fair value accounting, and payment $ million settle patent lawsuit. These increased expenditures were partially offset higher net sales and gross profit. The increase operating income compared with was primarily attributed increases net sales and gross profit growth and leveraging operating expenses relative net sales. Income from operations was negatively affected year-over-year changes exchange rates , and positively affected and . Net Interest Expense The primary component our net interest expense the interest incur our long-term debt instruments, including $ million principal balance our % . Convertible Subordinated Notes and \x80 million ($ million based the exchange rate December , ) principal balance our % PEACS December , . Interest expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , with declines primarily relating principal repayments $ million and $ million and . December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion compared $ billion December , . February , announced plans redeem \x80 million principal our % PEACS, which expected close March , , for cash payment approximately $ million ( the Euro . dollar exchange rate January , ), which includes $ million interest. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds and the prevailing rates are earning them, which vary depending the geographies and currencies which they are invested. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, was $ million, $( ) million, and $ million, , and , and consisted primarily gains (losses) sales marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains (losses), and other miscellaneous losses, net. Foreign-currency transaction gains (losses) primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS. Since these payments are settled Euros, the balance interest payable (which paid annually February) subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) remeasurement % PEACS ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Gain (loss) sales Euro-denominated investments, net ( ) Loss redemption long-term debt ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign-currency effect intercompany balances ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Total remeasurements and other $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Represents the gains (losses) associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) Activity and primarily includes gains associated with the sale certain equity investments. Activity primarily includes loss from termination our Euro currency swap. ( ) expect record charge $ million related our announced plans redeem \x80 million principal our % PEACS, which expected close March , . Income Taxes recorded tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, determined year end that certain our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. Excluding this $ million benefit, our effective tax rate would have been significantly higher than the % statutory rate, resulting from steps initiated establish our European headquarters Luxembourg, which expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the establishment our European headquarters, transferred certain our operating assets from the . international locations which resulted taxable income and increase our effective tax rate. will initiate similar asset transfers finalize our European headquarters transition, and expect this will result effective tax rate for financial reporting purposes significantly higher than the statutory rate for . There potential for significant volatility our effective tax rate due several factors, including from variability accurately predicting our taxable income and the taxable jurisdictions which relates. Since have deferred tax assets related our NOLs, these asset transfers will not have significant impact our cash taxes paid , which expect approximately $ million, compared with $ million and $ million . are not endeavoring optimize our global taxes financial reporting basis, instead endeavor optimize our global taxes cash basis. recorded tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, and credit \x93Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit)\x94 $ million determined that certain our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. December , , our deferred tax assets, net deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, are $ million, which includes $ million relating NOLs that are primarily attributed stock-based compensation, the majority which begin expire , and $ million relating capital loss carryforwards that expire and thereafter. The remaining portion relates temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases. The $ million NOLs primarily attributed stock-based compensation are presented net fully-reserved NOL deferred tax assets totaling $ million. Total gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs December , were $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs). Net Income Net income was $ million, $ million and $ million , and . believe that year-over-year changes net income are not necessarily predictive our future net income results for variety reasons. For example, recorded provision for income taxes $ million and recorded net income tax benefit $ million. Included these amounts and were tax benefits $ million and $ million resulting from our determination that certain our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. Additionally, the remeasurement our % PEACS and intercompany balances resulted net gains and net charges and associated with the effect movements currency exchange rates. Accordingly, encourage readers our financial statements evaluate the effect our operating trends these items since future income taxes and change currency exchange rates may create significant variability our future operating results. Effect Exchange Rates The effect our consolidated statements operations from changes exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Net sales $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ $ , $ , $ $ , Gross profit , ( ) , , , , , Operating expenses , ( ) , , , Income from operations ( ) Net interest expense and other ( ) Remeasurements and other ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income ( ) ( ) Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had exchange rates the current period been the same those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results, and did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our % PEACS and intercompany balances. ( ) Represents the increase (decrease) reported amounts resulting from changes exchange rates from those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results, and did not incur the variability associated with remeasurements for our % PEACS and intercompany balances. ( ) Includes foreign-currency gains (losses) remeasurement % PEACS and intercompany balances, and realized currency-related gains associated with sales Euro-denominated investments held . subsidiary. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure \x93Free cash flow\x94 meets the definition non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow used addition and conjunction with results presented accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not relied upon the exclusion GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects additional way viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides more complete understanding factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports their entirety and not rely any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which reconcile \x93Net cash provided operating activities,\x94 cash flow from operations reduced \x93Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.\x94 use free cash flow, and ratios based , conduct and evaluate our business because, although similar cash flow from operations, believe more conservative measure cash flows since purchases fixed assets are necessary component ongoing operations. limited circumstances which proceeds from sales fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since not anticipate being net seller fixed assets, expect free cash flow less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due the fact that does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made capital lease obligations cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, believe important view free cash flow complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP measure, \x93Net cash provided operating activities\x94 for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided operating activities $ $ $ Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow $ $ $ Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Net cash used financing activities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) addition, provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, which excludes the employer portion payroll tax expense. provide this information show the impact stock-based compensation, which non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance (although consider the dilutive impact our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation not allocated segment results and therefore excluding from operating expense consistent with our segment presentation our footnotes the consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are important element the company\x92 compensation structure and all forms stock-based awards are valued and included appropriate results operations. Guidance The Company provided guidance February , its earnings release furnished Form - follows: First Quarter Guidance \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %, compared with first quarter . \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, decline between ( %) and ( %), compared with first quarter . This guidance includes $ million for stock-based compensation and amortization intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that additional intangible assets are recorded, and that there are further revisions stock-based compensation restructuring-related estimates. Full Year Expectations \x95 Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %, compared with . \x95 Operating income expected between $ million and $ million, between ( %) decline and % growth, compared with . This guidance includes $ million for stock-based compensation and amortization intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that additional intangible assets are recorded and that there are changes stock-based compensation restructuring-related estimates. These projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item . Part , \x93Risk Factors.\x94 ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources\x94. Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Corporate debt securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % . Government and Agency Securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Asset backed securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Other securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ , $ , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate debt securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % . Government and Agency Securities \x97 Weighted average interest rate % % % % % \x97 % Asset backed securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate \x97 % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Other securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ , $ , December , , had long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS, which are due and . The fair value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices prevailing exchange rates, the fair value the % PEACS was \x80 million $ million (outstanding principal \x80 million) and \x80 million $ million (outstanding principal \x80 million) December , and , and the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ million and $ million December , and . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment (consisting www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, well those relating www amazon (which included our North America segment), are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites the same the corresponding local currency. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues declined $ million and our operating results declined $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (\x93foreign funds\x94). Based the balance foreign funds December , $ million, assumed %, %, and % negative currency movement would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ million. All investments are classified \x93available for sale,\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . have foreign exchange risk related our % PEACS, which have outstanding principal balance December , \x80 million ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, which cannot predict, our remaining principal debt obligation under the % PEACS since issuance February has increased $ million December , . Based the outstanding % PEACS\x92 principal balance, assumed %, %, and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result additional losses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 Additionally, have not hedged our interest payments under our % PEACS protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the . Dollar weakens against the Euro %, %, and % , would incur $ million, $ million, and $ million additional annual interest expense due solely fluctuations foreign exchange. See \x93Effect Exchange Rates\x94 for additional information the effect reported results changes exchange rates. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities,\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other assets.\x94 regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market general, company-specific circumstances, and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, %, and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity (deficit), and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . (revised ), Share-Based Payment, effective January , . also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness Amazon com, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income Adjustments reconcile net income net cash provided operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization Stock-based compensation Other operating expense (income) ( ) Gains sales marketable securities, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Remeasurements and other ( ) Non-cash interest expense and other Deferred income taxes ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Accrued expenses and other current liabilities ( ) ( ) Additions unearned revenue Amortization previously unearned revenue ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided operating activities INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( ) ( ) ( ) Acquisitions, net cash acquired ( ) ( ) \x97 Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Proceeds from sale subsidiary \x97 \x97 Net cash (used ) provided investing activities ( ) ( ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercises stock options and other Proceeds from long-term debt and other \x97 \x97 Repayments long-term debt and capital lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash used financing activities ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents ( ) Net (decrease) increase cash and cash equivalents ( ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses ( ): Fulfillment Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Other operating expense (income) ( ) Total operating expenses , , Income from operations Interest income Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) Remeasurements and other ( ) ( ) Total non-operating expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes ( ) Income before change accounting principle Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ Basic earnings per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 $ $ $ Weighted average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ( ) Includes stock-based compensation follows: Fulfillment $ $ $ Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Total stock-based compensation expense $ $ $ See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except per share data) December , Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities , , Inventories Deferred tax assets, current portion Accounts receivable, net and other current assets Total current assets , , Fixed assets, net Deferred tax assets, long-term portion Goodwill Other assets Total assets $ , $ , \x92 ( ) Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt and other , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity (deficit): Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 Issued and outstanding shares\x97none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , Issued and outstanding shares\x97 and shares Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive income Accumulated deficit ( , ) ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) ( ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY (DEFICIT) ( millions) Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Shares Amount Balance December , $ $ , $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Increase net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Net activity terminated Euro Currency Swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock \x97 \x97 \x97 Income tax benefit stock awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Deferred stock-based compensation, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , , ( , ) ( , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Decline unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax effect \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock \x97 \x97 \x97 Income tax benefit stock awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Deferred stock-based compensation, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , , ( , ) ( ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Decline unrealized gains available-for-sale securities, net tax effect \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Amortization unrealized loss terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock \x97 \x97 \x97 Change accounting principle \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Income tax benefit stock awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balance December , $ $ , $ $ ( , ) $ See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July and today offers Earth\x92 Biggest Selection. seek Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online, and endeavor offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon com and its affiliates operate retail websites, including: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com . addition, operate other websites, including www com and www alexa com that enable search and navigation; www imdb com , comprehensive movie database; and Amazon Mechanical Turk www mturk com which provides web service for computers integrate network humans directly into their processes. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities (relating www joyo com ) which have variable interest. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated . Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , valuation investments, receivables valuation, sales returns, incentive discount offers, inventory valuation, depreciable lives fixed assets, internally-developed software, valuation acquired intangibles, deferred tax assets and liabilities, stock-based compensation, restructuring-related liabilities, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Business Acquisitions acquired certain companies during for aggregate cash purchase price $ million. Acquired intangibles totaled $ million and have estimated useful lives between one and three years. The excess purchase price over the fair value the net assets acquired was $ million and classified \x93Goodwill\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. The results operations each the acquired businesses have been included our consolidated results from each transaction closing date forward. The effect these acquisitions consolidated net sales and operating income during was not significant. , acquired all the outstanding shares Joyo com Limited, British Virgin Islands company that operates Internet retail website the People\x92 Republic China (\x93PRC\x94) cooperation with PRC subsidiary and PRC affiliates, purchase price $ million, including cash payment $ million (net cash acquired), the assumption employee stock options, and transaction-related costs. Acquired intangibles were $ million with estimated useful lives between one and four years. The excess purchase price over the fair value the net assets acquired was $ million and classified \x93Goodwill\x94 the consolidated balance sheets. The results operations Joyo com have been included our consolidated results from the acquisition date forward. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The PRC regulates Joyo com\x92 business through regulations and license requirements restricting ( ) the scope foreign investment the Internet, retail and delivery sectors, ( ) Internet content and (iii) the sale certain media products. order meet the PRC local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, Joyo com\x92 business operated through PRC subsidiary which acts cooperation with PRC companies owned nominee shareholders who are PRC nationals. Joyo com does not own any capital stock the PRC affiliates, but the primary beneficiary future losses profits through contractual rights. result, consolidate the results the PRC affiliates accordance with FIN 46R, \x93Consolidation Variable Interest Entities.\x94 The net assets and operating results for the PRC affiliates were not significant. Accounting Change January , , adopted SFAS . ( ) using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement compensation cost for all stock-based awards fair value date grant and recognition compensation over the service period for awards expected vest. The adoption SFAS ( ) resulted cumulative benefit from accounting change $ million, which reflects the net cumulative impact estimating future forfeitures the determination period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur previously permitted. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Stock-based Compensation.\x94 Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments, including money market funds that comply with Rule - the Investment Company Act , with remaining maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. provide fulfillment-related services connection with certain our third parties and Amazon Enterprise Solutions programs. those arrangements, well all other product sales third parties, the third party maintains ownership the related products. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Current Assets Included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets\x94 are prepaid expenses $ million and $ million December , and , representing advance payments for insurance, licenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts, any, and historical experience losses incurred. The allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $ million and $ million December , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred develop software for internal use are required capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software accordance with Statement Position (SOP) - , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use. Costs related design maintenance internal-use software are expensed incurred. For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million, and $ million costs associated with internal-use software and website development, which are partially offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. Depreciation Fixed Assets Fixed assets include assets such furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure, internal-use software and website development, and our DVD rental library. Depreciation recorded straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two years less for assets such internal-use software and our DVD rental library, three years for our technology infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense generally classified within the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations, and certain assets, such our DVD rental library, are amortized \x93Cost sales.\x94 Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations account for our lease agreements pursuant SFAS , Accounting for Leases , which categorizes leases their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. certain our lease agreements, may receive rent holidays and other incentives. recognize lease costs straight-line basis without regard deferred payment terms, such rent holidays that defer the commencement date required payments. Additionally, incentives receive are treated reduction our costs over the term the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life the life the lease, without assuming renewal features, any, are exercised. accordance with Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs return certain our leased facilities their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated restoration costs. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment, minimum, annual basis and whenever events and changes circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not recoverable. Impairment goodwill tested the reporting unit level comparing the reporting unit\x92 carrying amount, including goodwill, the fair value the reporting unit. The fair values the reporting units are estimated using discounted projected cash flows. the carrying amount the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill considered impaired and second step performed measure the amount impairment loss, any. conduct our annual impairment test October each year, and have determined there impairment . There were events circumstances from the date our assessment through December , that would impact this assessment. December , and December , , approximately % and % our acquired goodwill was assigned our International segment, the majority which relates our acquisition Joyo com . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Other Assets Included \x93Other assets\x94 our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related deferred issuance charges our long-term debt, which are amortized over the life the debt; certain equity investments; and intangible assets, net amortization. December , , and , deferred issuance charges were $ million, and $ million; equity investments were $ million and $ million; and intangibles, net amortization, were $ million, and $ million. Other intangibles, included within \x93Other assets,\x94 consist the following: December , Other Intangibles ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Other Intangibles, Net ( ) Other Intangibles ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Other Intangibles, Net ( millions) Marketing-related $ $ ( ) $ $ $ \x97 $ Contract-based \x97 ( ) Technology-based ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Customer-related ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Other intangibles $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. ( ) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized over the next three years follows: $ million ; $ million ; $ million . The weighted-average amortization period years based useful life assumptions between one and four years. Investments The initial carrying cost our investments the price paid. Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. classify our investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other assets\x94 and our share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Losses from equity-method investees were not significant for any period presented. not hold over % interest any our investees December , . All other equity investments, which consist investments for which not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings, and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, classify our equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses, net tax, included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income,\x94 separate component Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit). generally invest our excess cash investment grade short intermediate term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Such investments are included \x93Cash and cash equivalents,\x94 \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income.\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold, and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments below their cost are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration the unrealized loss well our ability and intent hold the investment until forecasted recovery occurs. Factors considered include quoted market prices, available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent purchase sales offers investee securities; other conditions that may affect the value our investments. December , , gross unrealized losses our marketable securities were $ million and were determined temporary based our assessment the qualitative and quantitative factors discussed above. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset\x92 carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , . Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities Included \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 December , and are liabilities $ million and $ million for unredeemed gift certificates. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance performing our service obligations and recognized ratably over the service period. Unearned revenue was $ million and $ million December , and . These amounts are included \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 the consolidated balance sheets. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes. not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings international subsidiaries, totaling $ million December , , since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. December , , our deferred tax assets, net deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, are $ million, which includes $ million relating net operating loss carryforwards (\x93NOLs\x94) that are primarily attributed stock-based compensation. The majority our NOLs begin expire . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Additionally, have elected present our NOL deferred tax assets attributed stock-based compensation net the related allowance the adoption SFAS ( ). Total gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs December , were $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs). SFAS , Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe portion will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative earnings experience taxing jurisdiction, expectations future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. accordance with the provisions SFAS , allocate our valuation allowance current and long-term deferred tax assets pro-rata basis. recorded tax benefit $ million, representing $ and $ basic and diluted earnings per share, determined year end that certain our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. The range possible judgments relating valuation our deferred tax assets very wide. For example, had determined that the weight available evidence did not support decision that these deferred tax assets are realizable; the \x93Provision (benefit) for income taxes\x94 would have been expense $ million for rather than expense $ million for the same period. December , continue have valuation allowance $ million, which relates primarily deferred tax assets that would only realizable upon the occurrence future capital gains. See \x93Note \x97Income Taxes.\x94 Revenue recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are primarily obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Under our syndicated stores arrangements, record gross product sales and costs since own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail sales customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts paid advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized revenue over the subscription term. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges customers are included \x93Net sales\x94 and were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Outbound shipping-related costs are included \x93Cost sales\x94 and totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The net cost shipping activities was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , and . Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, amortization our DVD rental library and costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation. Shipping charges receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory, and recognized \x93Cost sales\x94 upon sale products our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, are classified \x93Fulfillment\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Vendor Agreements have agreements receive cash consideration from certain our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. generally presume amounts received from our vendors are reduction the prices pay for their products and, therefore, reflect such amounts either reduction \x93Cost sales\x94 our consolidated statements operations, , the product inventory still hand, reduction the carrying value inventory. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. When receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred advertising the vendor\x92 product service, the amount receive recorded offset \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-parties that assist fulfillment AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) and customer service operations. Certain our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation, are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily online advertising, including through our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, -mail campaigns, and other initiatives. pay commissions participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales and classify such costs \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Marketing expenses also consist public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, business development, and selling activities; and lesser extent, traditional advertising such newspaper inserts. Advertising and other promotional costs, which consist primarily online advertising, are expensed incurred, and were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for employees involved research and development, including application development, editorial content, merchandising selection, systems and telecommunications support, and costs associated with the systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and depreciated over two years. During , , and capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million, and $ million costs associated with development internal-use software, which offset amortization previously capitalized amounts $ million, $ million, and $ million. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, content, and website development, net accumulated depreciation, were $ million and $ million December , and . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for employees involved general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use these functions facilities and equipment, such depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation Prior January , , accounted for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting resulted compensation AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units their estimated fair value date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock, and for stock options the extent option exercise prices were set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent stock awards were subject exchange offer, other modifications, performance criteria, such awards were subject variable accounting treatment. the extent stock awards were forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense was reversed offset operating expenses. January , , adopted SFAS . ( ) using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement compensation cost for all stock-based awards fair value date grant and recognition compensation over the service period for awards expected vest. The fair value restricted stock and restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock, and the fair value stock options determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for options footnote disclosures required under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method under SFAS ( ). The estimation stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. For example, the fourth quarter , recorded benefit $ million, $ million net tax, $ per diluted share, representing the cumulative effect increasing the rate forfeitures expected over the life issued stock awards based our historical experience. Additionally, because implemented SFAS ( ), longer have employee stock awards subject variable accounting treatment. The adoption SFAS ( ) resulted cumulative benefit from accounting change $ million , which reflects the net cumulative impact estimating future forfeitures the determination period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur previously permitted. Prior the adoption SFAS ( ), cash retained result tax deductions relating stock-based compensation was presented operating cash flows, along with other tax cash flows, accordance with the provisions the EITF . - , Classification the Statement Cash Flows the Income Tax Benefit Received Company upon Exercise Nonqualified Employee Stock Option. SFAS ( ) supersedes EITF - , amends SFAS , Statement Cash Flows, and requires tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions prospectively presented the statement cash flows financing cash inflows. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions excess amounts reported for financial reporting purposes were $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended December , , , and . expect the corresponding amount for increase substantially and possibly excess $ million, although the actual amount subject considerable variability. March , , the SEC published Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , which provides the Staff\x92 views variety matters relating stock-based payments. SAB requires stock-based compensation classified the same expense line items cash compensation. have reclassified stock-based compensation from prior periods correspond current period presentation within the same operating expense line items cash compensation paid employees. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The application SFAS ( ) had the following effect reported amounts relative amounts that would have been reported using the intrinsic value method under previous accounting ( millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December , Using Previous Accounting SFAS ( ) Adjustments Reported Income from operations $ $ \x97 $ Income before income taxes \x97 Income before cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 Net income Basic earnings per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ \x97 $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ \x97 $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 $ $ $ $ Cash flow from operating activities $ $ ( ) $ Cash flow from financing activities ( ) ( ) The fair value for each stock option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming dividends and the following assumptions: Year Ended December , Average risk-free interest rate % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % Stock-based compensation for the years ended December , and was determined using the intrinsic value method. The following table provides pro forma financial information stock-based compensation had been computed under SFAS ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , Net income\x97 reported $ $ Add: Stock-based compensation, reported Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined using fair value-based method for all awards ( ) ( ) Net income\x97SFAS fair value adjusted $ $ Basic earnings per share\x97 reported $ $ Diluted earnings per share\x97 reported Basic earnings per share\x97SFAS fair value adjusted Diluted earnings per share\x97SFAS fair value adjusted AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Additionally, may determine that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future needs. the extent elect utilize this office space will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income).\x94 Foreign Currency have the following internationally-focused websites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com. Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated the functional currencies the resident countries. Additionally, the functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www joyo com the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, and China. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income,\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) and the \x93Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents,\x94 the consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 provision SFAS . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, where settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. periods ending prior the fourth quarter , currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were recorded stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation, any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurements intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. accordance with SFAS . , currency adjustments arising before the fourth quarter continue included component \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. connection with the remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded loss $ million , and gains $ million and $ million and . Derivative Financial Instruments During , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS principal and interest. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 hold warrants purchase equity securities other companies that are derivative financial instruments, classified \x93Other assets\x94 the consolidated balance sheets. not designate our warrants hedging AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 the period change. determine the fair value our warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for our private-company warrants. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect stock awards determined under the treasury stock method. Our convertible debt instruments are excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share their effect antidilutive. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( millions): Year Ended December , Weighted average shares outstanding Weighted average shares restricted stock ( ) ( ) ( ) Shares used computation basic earnings per share Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards ( ) Shares used computation diluted earnings per share ( ) Calculated using the treasury stock method that assumes proceeds available reduce the dilutive affect outstanding stock awards, which include the exercise price stock options, the unrecognized deferred compensation stock awards, and assumed tax proceeds from excess stock-based compensation deductions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements March , the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) . , Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, Interpretation FASB Statement . . conditional asset retirement obligation refers legal obligation retire assets where the timing and method settlement are conditioned future events. FIN . requires entity recognize liability for the fair value conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred the liability\x92 fair value can reasonably estimated. adopted the provisions FIN . The adoption this Interpretation did not have material impact our consolidated financial position, results operations cash flows. November , the FASB issued Staff Position . FAS - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application Certain Investments (\x93FSP - \x94). FSP - provides accounting guidance for determining and measuring other-than-temporary impairments debt and equity securities, and confirms the disclosure requirements for investments unrealized loss positions outlined EITF issue - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairments and its Application Certain Investments . The accounting requirements FSP - are effective for January , and will not have material impact our consolidated financial position, results operations cash flows. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, our cash and marketable securities ( millions): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Cash equivalents pledged collateral \x97 \x97 Money market funds \x97 ( ) Bank certificates deposits \x97 \x97 Corporate debt securities ( ) . government and agency securities ( ) Asset-backed securities ( ) Equity and other securities ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (substantially all less than twelve months), and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary.\x94 ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Cash equivalents pledged collateral \x97 \x97 Money market funds \x97 \x97 Bank certificates deposits \x97 \x97 Corporate debt securities \x97 \x97 . government and agency securities \x97 ( ) Asset-backed securities \x97 \x97 Equity and other securities \x97 Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions was $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (all less than twelve months), and the amount the impairments relative the underlying portfolio and concluded that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary.\x94 ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following table summarizes contractual maturities our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ $ Due after one year through three years Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities $ , $ , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities, including Euro-denominated securities, for , , and . are required pledge portion our cash equivalents marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations, line credit, and real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 Note \x97FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( millions): December , Gross Fixed Assets ( ): Fulfillment and customer service ( ) $ $ Technology infrastructure Internal-use software, content, and website development Other corporate assets Gross fixed assets Accumulated Depreciation ( ): Fulfillment and customer service Technology infrastructure Internal-use software, content, and website development Other corporate assets Total accumulated depreciation Total fixed assets, net $ $ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets which were $ million and $ million December , and . ( ) Includes our DVD rental library. Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million and $ million for , , and . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ million and $ million December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ million and $ million December , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER Our long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows: December , ( millions) % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February $ $ % PEACS due February Other long-term debt and capital lease obligations , , Less current portion other long-term debt and capital lease obligations ( ) ( ) Total long-term debt and other $ , $ , % PEACS February , completed offering \x80 million our % Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities due February (\x93 % PEACS\x94). The % PEACS are convertible, the holder\x92 option, into our common stock conversion price \x80 per share ($ , based the exchange rates December , ). Total common stock issuable, December , , upon conversion our outstanding % PEACS was million shares, which excluded from our calculation earnings per share its effect anti-dilutive. The . Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % PEACS, whole part, paying the principal, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. premium payment required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . the first quarter , redeemed aggregate principal amount \x80 million ($ million based the Euro . Dollar exchange rate the date redemption) our outstanding % PEACS. recorded charge classified \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 approximately $ million related the redemption, consisting $ million unamortized deferred issuance charges and $ million relating unrealized losses our terminated currency swap that previously hedged portion our % PEACS. Accrued and unpaid interest $ million was also paid redemption and recorded \x93Interest expense.\x94 During , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest. Although neither party made cash payments AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) terminate the agreement, recorded non-cash loss $ million \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 representing the remaining basis our swap asset. December , , the remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency Swap, recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income,\x94 was $ million, net tax effects. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , this accumulated loss will amortized \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 over the life the % PEACS. redeem otherwise restructure our % PEACS prior maturity , any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the Euro Currency Swap will recorded charge \x93Remeasurements and other.\x94 Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million (outstanding principal \x80 million and \x80 million) December , and . February , announced plans redeem \x80 million principal our % PEACS, which expected close March , , for cash payment approximately $ million ( the Euro . dollar exchange rate January , ), which includes $ million interest. Additionally, February , our Board Directors authorized new debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization its entirety, pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into our common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes rank equally with our outstanding % PEACS. have the right redeem the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, whole part, paying the principal plus redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. December , , the redemption premium was % the principal, and decreased % February , and will decrease additional basis points annually until maturity. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants through December , . , redeemed aggregate principal amount $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. provided the underlying indenture, the redemption price $ million represented $ million ( %) premium over the face amount the redeemed notes. recorded charge AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) classified \x93Remeasurements and other,\x94 $ million related this redemption, consisting premium $ million and unamortized deferred issuance costs $ million. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value our % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and was $ million and $ million. Note \x97COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal operations, December , : Thereafter Total ( millions) Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and other ( ) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ , Debt interest ( ) \x97 Capital leases Operating leases ( ) ( ) Total commitments $ $ $ $ , $ $ $ , ( ) Under our % PEACS, the principal payment due and the annual interest payments fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due changes the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our remaining principal debt obligation under this instrument since issuance February has increased $ million December , . The principal and interest commitments December , reflect the partial redemptions the % PEACS and % Convertible Subordinated Notes. Additionally, March , , will redeem \x80 million our outstanding % PEACS, which not reflected the table above. ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate totaling $ million. had applied our equipment operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional obligations our balance sheet December , . ( ) Includes $ million related restructuring-related leases and other commitments, consisting $ million due within months and included \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities,\x94 and $ million due after months and included \x93Long-term debt and other\x94 our balance sheets. These amounts are net anticipated sublease income $ million. See \x93Note \x97Other Operating Expense (Income)\x94 for additional information about our restructuring-related lease obligations. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our cash equivalents marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations, line credit, and real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases; with fluctuations our market capitalization, which common shares outstanding multiplied the closing price our common stock; and based our credit-rating. Information about collateral required pledged under these agreements follows: Standby Letters Credit ( ) Line Credit ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total ( millions) Balance December , $ $ $ $ Net change collateral pledged ( ) Balance December , ( ) $ $ $ $ ( ) Pursuant available standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. ( ) Pursuant available line credit totaling $ million, whereby collateral required pledged % the outstanding balance. ( ) December , , our market capitalization was $ billion. The required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion and additional $ million our market capitalization equal below $ billion. ( ) Includes $ million cash equivalents pledged collateral. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 Legal Proceedings The Company involved from time time claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). August , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and have been vigorously defending ourselves these matters. March , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the plaintiff class with respect the Act claims. July , signed Stipulation Settlement with counsel representing the plaintiff class with respect the Act claims. These settlements, which were approved the Court the fourth quarter , dispose all claims asserted these lawsuits exchange for payments totaling $ million, substantially all which expect funded our insurers. October , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. November , the Court dismissed all the plaintiff\x92 claims with prejudice. The plaintiff appealing that dismissal. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint, and will continue defend ourselves vigorously this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states, including Illinois and Nevada, private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. January , IPXL Holdings, LLC brought action against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges that aspects our online ordering technology, including -Click ® ordering, infringe patent obtained IPXL purporting cover \x93Electronic Fund Transfer Transaction System\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. August , the Court entered judgment Amazon com\x92 favor the grounds that the patent claims asserted the plaintiff were invalid and that Amazon com\x92 technology did not infringe those claims any event. The judgment our favor was affirmed the Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit November . April , learned that the French authorities are investigating our DVD sales practices France, and are cooperating. May , Toysrus com LLC filed complaint against for breach contract the Superior Court New Jersey. The complaint alleges that breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus com LLC selling, and permitting other third parties sell, products that Toysrus com LLC alleges has exclusive right sell our website. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, declaratory judgment, termination the agreement, and monetary damages excess $ million. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and have brought counterclaims alleging breach contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial both parties\x92 claims concluded November , and decision the Court pending. September , BTG International Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our Associates program, infringes two patents obtained BTG purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93Attaching Navigational History Information Universal Resource Locator Links World Wide Web Page\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and for \x93Tracking the Navigation Path User the World Wide Web\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October Cendant Publishing, Inc. filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleged that our website technology, including AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) our recommendations features, infringes patent obtained Cendant purporting cover \x93System and Method for Providing Recommendation Goods Services Based Recorded Purchasing History\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and sought injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. February , Cendant voluntarily withdrew the complaint without prejudice. June , however, Cendant -filed new complaint containing substantially the same claims. response, filed countersuit the United States District Court for the Western District Washington (since transferred the District Delaware) alleging that Cendant\x92 parent, Cendant Corporation, and its affiliates Orbitz, Inc., Budget Rent Car System, Inc., Avis Rent Car System, Inc., and Trilegiant Corporation infringe certain patents owned and our subsidiary, com. dispute Cendant\x92 allegations wrongdoing its complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. December , Registrar Systems LLC filed complaint against and Target Corporation for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the method which Amazon com enables customers use Amazon com account information websites that Amazon com operates for third parties, such Target com, infringes two patents obtained Registrar Systems purporting cover methods and apparatuses for \x93World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. Inventory Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our inventory purchases. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Note \x97STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY (DEFICIT) Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Outstanding stock options generally have term years from the date grant. Stock Award Activity granted stock awards, which since October have consisted primarily restricted stock units, representing million, million, and million shares common stock during , , and with per share weighted average fair value $ , $ , and $ . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Common shares underlying outstanding stock awards were follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Stock options ( ) Restricted stock units Outstanding stock awards, excluded from common stock outstanding Restricted stock, included outstanding common stock ( ) \x97 Total outstanding stock awards ( ) The weighted average per share exercise price was $ , $ , and $ , , and . ( ) Included issued and outstanding common stock. Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding stock options and restricted stock units totaled million, million, and million December , , and . These totals include all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures, consisting vested and unvested awards, and -the-money and out- -the-money stock options. Common shares outstanding increased million shares both and , due exercises stock options, vesting restricted stock units, and matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( millions): Number Units Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units cancelled ( ) Outstanding December , Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting\x97restricted stock units AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The following table summarizes our stock option activity: Number Options ( millions) Weighted Avg Exercise Price Outstanding December , $ Options granted Options exercised ( ) Options terminated ( ) Outstanding December , $ Options granted Options exercised ( ) Options terminated ( ) Outstanding December , $ Options granted Options exercised ( ) Options terminated ( ) Outstanding December , $ The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Options Outstanding Stock Options Vested Range Exercise Prices Number Awards ( millions) Remaining Life (yrs) Weighted Avg Exercise Price Number Awards ( millions) Weighted Avg Exercise Price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 $ \x96 $ $ $ The aggregate intrinsic value stock options outstanding was $ million, which $ million relates vested awards. Intrinsic value for stock options calculated based the difference between the exercise price the underlying awards and the quoted price our common stock the reporting date. matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan, granted million and million shares common stock for years ended and . Shares granted matching contributions under our ( ) plan and shares restricted stock are included outstanding common stock when issued. December , , there was $ million total unrecognized compensation cost, net estimated forfeitures $ million, related unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation recognized accelerated basis resulting approximately half the compensation expected expensed the next twelve months, and weighted average recognition period years. During and , the fair value restricted stock units and restricted stock awards vested was $ million and $ million, and the intrinsic value options exercised was $ million and $ million. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance follows ( millions): Stock awards Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS Note \x97OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The changes the components other comprehensive income (loss) were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , ( millions) Net income $ $ $ Foreign currency translation gains (losses) ( ) ( ) Unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during the year, net tax effect $( ) and $( ) ( ) Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net income, net tax effect $ \x97 ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities ( ) ( ) Net activity terminated Euro Currency Swap: Remeasurement Euro Currency Swap fair value \x97 \x97 Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net income \x97 \x97 ( ) Amortization net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax effect $ and $( ) ( ) Net activity terminated Euro Currency Swap Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Comprehensive income $ $ $ ( ) Includes $ million recognized \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 related our \x80 million redemption % PEACS the first quarter . Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income were follows ( millions): December , ( millions) Net unrealized gains foreign currency translation $ $ Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities, net tax ( ) Net unrealized losses terminated Euro Currency Swap, net tax ( ) ( ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income $ $ AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE (INCOME) Other operating expense was $ million , primarily attributable our settlement patent lawsuit for $ million, well amortization other intangibles $ million. Other operating income was $ million for and other operating expense was $ million for , which includes restructuring-related credits, net, $ million and amortization other intangibles $ million and $ million and . During , determined that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which had been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, was necessary for our future needs. reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting gain $ million for . Lease payments for this office space are expensed over the lease period and classified the corresponding operating expense categories the consolidated statements operations. , streamlined our organizational structure France reduce our operating costs. These efforts were primarily focused eliminating French-office positions managerial, professional, clerical, and technical roles. The number employees affected totaled and resulted severance costs $ million classified \x93Other operating expense (income)\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Note \x97OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net, was $ million, $( ) million, and $ million, , and , and consisted primarily gains (losses) sales marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains (losses), and other miscellaneous losses, net. Foreign-currency transaction gains (losses) primarily relate the interest payable our % PEACS. Since these payments are settled Euros, the balance interest payable (which paid annually February) subject gains losses resulting from changes exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment Note \x97REMEASUREMENTS AND OTHER Remeasurements and other consisted the following: Year Ended December , ( millions) Foreign-currency gain (loss) remeasurement % PEACS ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Gain (loss) sales Euro-denominated investments, net ( ) Loss redemption long-term debt ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign-currency effect intercompany balances ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Total remeasurements and other $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurements and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Represents the gains (losses) associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) During and , primarily includes gains associated with the sale certain equity investments. During , primarily includes the loss termination the Euro currency swap. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97INCOME TAXES Cash taxes paid were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . The components the provision for income taxes, net are follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) Current taxes: . and state $ $ $ International Current taxes Deferred taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes, net $ $ ( ) $ . and international components income (loss) before income taxes are follows: Year Ended December , ( millions) . $ $ $ International ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes $ $ $ Total income tax expense/(benefit) and amounts allocated stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) were follows: ( millions) Income from continuing operations $ $ ( ) $ Stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) ( ) ( ) ( ) $ $ ( ) $ The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision (benefit) recorded for income taxes are follows: Year Ended December , Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : Decrease beginning- -year balance the valuation allowance ( ) ( ) ( ) Net operating losses foreign subsidiaries not benefited Permanent differences, state income taxes, and other ( ) Total % ( )% % AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The significant components deferred income tax expense/(benefit) attributable income from continuing operations for the year ended December , are follows: For the year ended December , ( millions) Deferred tax expense/(benefit) exclusive the effect the items listed below $ $ $ Decrease beginning- -year balance the valuation allowance ( ) ( ) \x97 Tax benefit net operating loss carryforwards ( ) ( ) ( ) Total deferred tax expense/(benefit) $ $ ( ) $ Deferred income taxes were: December , ( millions) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses ( ) $ $ Assets held for investment Revenue items Expense items, including stock-based compensation Tax credits Total gross deferred tax assets , Less valuation allowance ( ) ( ) Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Expense items ( ) ( ) Net deferred tax $ $ ( ) Presented net fully-reserved NOL deferred tax assets December , totaling $ million which were attributed stock-based compensation the adoption SFAS . ( ). Total gross deferred tax assets related our NOLs December , were $ million (relating approximately $ billion NOLs). Note \x97SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. allocate segment results the operating expenses \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative,\x94 but exclude from our allocations the portions these expense lines attributable stock-based compensation. Additionally, not allocate the line item \x93Other operating income (expense)\x94 our segment operating results. significant majority our costs for \x93Technology and content\x94 are incurred the United States and most these costs are allocated our North America segment. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from third-party sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such www amazon com and www amazon ; from North America-focused Syndicated Stores, such www borders com ; from our mail-order tool catalog phone orders; from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such North America-focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions, marketing, and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from third-party sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and since September , www joyo com ; from internationally focused Syndicated Stores; from our DVD rental service and from non-retail activities such internationally focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income follows ( millions): Year Ended December , ( millions) North America Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit , , Direct segment operating expenses Segment operating income $ $ $ International Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit Direct segment operating expenses Segment operating income $ $ $ Consolidated Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross profit , , , Direct segment operating expenses , , Segment operating income Stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Other operating income (expense) ( ) ( ) Income from operations Total non-operating expense, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( ) ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ $ AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Net sales shipped customers outside the . represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for , , and . Net sales from www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon each represented % more consolidated net sales and ; net sales from www amazon and www amazon each represented % more consolidated net sales . Net fixed assets held locations outside the . were $ million, $ million, and $ million December , , , and . Total assets, segment, reconciled consolidated amounts were ( millions): December , North America $ , $ , International , , Consolidated $ , $ , Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America $ $ $ International Consolidated $ $ $ Note \x97FAIR VALUES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values our financial instruments were follows ( millions): December , Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ , $ , Marketable securities ( ) Other equity investments ( ) Long-term debt ( ) , , , , ( ) The fair value marketable securities determined from publicly quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 ( ) The fair value other equity investments determined from publicly quoted prices, plus the carrying amount privately-held investments for which market values are not readily determinable. evaluate \x93Other equity investments\x94 for impairment accordance with our stated policy. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 ( ) The fair value our long-term debt determined based quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , , and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit Income before income taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes ( ) Income before change accounting principle Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income Basic earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit Income before income taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes ( ) ( ) Net income Basic earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ $ $ $ Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit Net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic Diluted ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ', 'item 9. ': ' hanges and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Act, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young LLP has issued attestation report management\x92 assessment internal control over financial reporting, copy which included this annual report Form - . Limitations Controls Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Ernst & Young LLP Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Management\x92 Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Amazon com, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon com, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that Amazon com, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting December , , fairly stated, all material respects, based the COSO criteria. Also, our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity (deficit), and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , Amazon com, Inc. and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February , ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Kal Raman, dated July , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}