{'item 1. ': 'Business General Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company\' principal executive officers are located Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, and its telephone number ( ) - . The Company designs, manufactures and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing products for sale primarily business, education, home, and government customers. Substantially all the Company\' net sales date have been derived from the sale personal computers from its Apple Macintosh (registered trademark) line computers and related software and peripherals. The Company operates one principal industry segment across geographically diverse marketplaces. Apple delivers full range information solutions people wide variety growing markets. The Company\' strategy maintain and expand its market share the personal computer industry while developing and expanding new related businesses, such its businesses -line services, licensing the Macintosh operating system, client server systems and personal interactive electronics. During , the Company continued major product transition Power Macintosh (registered trademark), its line Macintosh computers based the PowerPC (registered trademark) architecture, Reduced Instruction Set Computing ("RISC") microprocessor jointly developed Apple, International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") and Motorola, Inc. The Company believes that these PowerPC based products yield significant improvements price performance and functionality compared with its products built using the Motorola series Complex Instruction Set Computing ("CISC") microprocessors. Further information regarding this product transition may found Part , Item this Annual Report Form - (the "Form - ") under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company announced the licensing the Macintosh operating system ("Mac ") other personal computer vendors January effort increase overall market share. Several vendors are currently selling product which utilizes Mac . The Company believes that licensing the operating system will result broader installed base which software vendors can develop and provide technical innovations for the Macintosh platform. Further information regarding the licensing the Mac may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition", which information hereby incorporated reference. Principal products The Company offers wide range personal computing products, including personal computers, related peripherals, software, and networking and connectivity products. Personal Computing Products Apple Macintosh personal computers were first introduced , and are characterized their intuitive ease use, innovative applications base, and built- networking, graphics and multimedia capabilities. Currently, the Company uses two types microprocessors its line personal computing products: the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor, and the Motorola CISC-based microprocessor. The majority the Company\' products are built using the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor, which include the Power Macintosh (registered trademark) family personal computers and certain products within the Macintosh Performa (registered trademark) and the PowerBook families personal computers. Products currently based the Motorola series CISC-based microprocessors include the Macintosh , and certain products within the Macintosh Performa and the PowerBook families personal computers. Generally, products based the Motorola series microprocessors can also upgraded take advantage the PowerPC processor. The Company also offers DOS compatible systems which include built- 68LC040 and 486DX2 processors enabling them run applications, games, and -ROM titles for -DOS and Windows operating systems well the Mac(trademark) operating system. Power Macintosh The Power Macintosh high-performance family personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. These Power Macintosh products not only support virtually all existing Macintosh applications, but can also run -DOS and Windows applications when using SoftWindows (trademark) software from Insignia Solutions. Macintosh The family personal computers offers high performance and competitive prices flexible, modular design. personal computers are well-suited for education applications such graphics, color presentations, multimedia, and spreadsheets. Macintosh Performa The Performa family personal computers designed appeal first- time personal computer users. These products feature all- -one box computing solutions, including software and hardware chosen specifically with home users mind. Performa products also include -home service and unlimited toll-free telephone support. Macintosh PowerBook The PowerBook family notebook-sized personal computers specifically designed for mobile computing needs. All PowerBook personal computers include the PowerBook Mobility Bundle, combination communications, power-management, security, compatibility, and entertainment software designed enhance mobile computing. Peripheral Products The Company sells associated computer peripherals, including the ImageWriter (registered trademark), StyleWriter (registered trademark), Color StyleWriter and LaserWriter (registered trademark) printer families, -ROM and magnetic disk drives, scanners and range color and monochrome monitors. Personal Digital-Assistant Products The Apple MessagePad (trademark) communications assistant integrates Newton (registered trademark) technology hand-held communications device that intelligently assists the user capturing, organizing and communicating information. Operating System Software and Application Software The Company\' operating system software, its proprietary Macintosh system software called Mac , provides Apple computers with easy, consistent user interface and built- networking capability based its AppleTalk networking standard, well other industry networking standards, and ensures integration hardware and software. The Company\' system software business group also develops and distributes extensions the Macintosh system software, such utilities, languages, developer tools, and educational software. Claris Corporation, wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes application software variety established personal productivity categories, such database management and graphics, for Macintosh and Windows-based systems. Claris also publishes and distributes software developed independent developers through its Claris Clear Choice (trademark) labeling program. Claris products are distributed primarily through independent software resellers. Networking and Connectivity Products The Company sells workgroup server systems that provide file, print and communications services varying size workgroups. The Company also provides networking and communications products that connect Apple systems local area networks, providing interoperability with other computers and computing environments well the Internet. These computing environments include IBM\' large and small systems and Digital Equipment Corporation\' VAX, well systems conforming the Open System Interconnection ("OSI") and Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol ("TCP ") standards. -Line Services The Company moving forward its new strategy focusing the Internet deliver online solutions for customers each the Company\' markets. doing , eWorld (trademark), the Company\' online service, plans increasingly feature Internet content, services, and technology, along with global electronic mail system with news, information and other services. This -line service also includes eWorld for Macintosh and NewtonMail (registered trademark), eWorld\' messaging service for Newton. Markets and Distribution The Company\' customers are primarily the business, education, and consumer markets. Customers are attracted the Macintosh particular for variety reasons, including the availability wide variety application software, the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh\' intuitive ease use, and the ability the Macintosh network and communicate with other computer systems and environments. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late \' . the United States, the Company one the major suppliers personal computers for both elementary and secondary school customers, well for college and university customers. The Company also substantial supplier institutions higher education outside the United States. the United States, the Company\' formal commitment serve the federal government began with the formation the Apple Federal Systems Group. Although the Company has contracts with number . government agencies, these contracts are not currently material the Company\' overall financial condition results operations. Presently, the Americas represent the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. The Apple Americas organization focuses the Company\' sales, marketing, and support efforts the United States, Canada and Latin America. Products sold these regions are primarily manufactured the Company\' facilities California, Colorado, and Singapore, and distributed from facilities California and Illinois. Approximately % % the Company\' revenues recent years has come from its international operations. The Company has two international sales and marketing divisions, consisting the Apple Europe division and the Apple Pacific division. The Apple Europe division focuses opportunities Europe well parts Africa and the Middle East. Products sold the Europe division are manufactured primarily the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland. The Apple Pacific division focuses opportunities Japan and Asia; Australia and New Zealand; and the Caribbean region. Products sold the Pacific division are manufactured primarily the Company\' facilities California, Colorado and Singapore. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers, and also continuing its expansion into various consumer channels, such mass merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets and computer superstores, response changing industry practices and customer preferences. The Company\' products are sold primarily business and government customers through independent resellers, value- added resellers and systems integrators; home customers through independent resellers and consumer channels; and education customers through direct sales and independent resellers. order provide products and service its independent resellers timely basis, the Company distributes its products through number Apple distribution and support centers. summary the Company\' Industry Segment and Geographic Information may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information", which information hereby incorporated reference. Raw materials Although certain raw materials, processes, and components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, key components and processes currently obtained from single sources include certain the Company\' displays, microprocessors, mouse devices, keyboards, disk drives, printers and printer components, application- specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") and other custom chips, and certain processes relating construction the plastic housing for the Company\' computers. Any availability limitations, interruption supplies, price increases relative these and other components could adversely affect the Company\' business and financial results. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source, until the Company has evaluated whether there need for additional supplier. situations where component product utilizes new technologies and processes, there may initial capacity constraints until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. Materials and components are normally acquired through purchase orders, common the industry, typically covering the Company\' requirements for periods from days. However, the Company continues evaluate the need for supply contract each situation. the supply key single-sourced material, process, component the Company were delayed curtailed, its ability ship the related product utilizing such material, process, component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company believes that the suppliers whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position include, this time, Canon, Inc., General Electric ., Hitachi, Ltd., IBM, Motorola, Inc., Sharp Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., and their United States affiliates, and VLSI Technology, Inc. However, the Company helps mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, and coordinated product introductions. The Company believes that most its single-source suppliers, including most the foregoing companies, are reliable multinational corporations. Most these suppliers manufacture the relevant materials, processes, components multiple plants. The Company further believes that its long-standing business relationships with these and other key suppliers are strong and mutually beneficial nature. The Company has also from time time experienced significant price increases and limited availability certain components that are available from multiple sources. Any similar occurrences the future could have adverse affect the Company\' operating results. The Company has supply agreement with Motorola, Inc. (see Exhibit hereto). The agreement with Motorola continues for five years from January , unless otherwise mutually agreed writing the parties. The Company single-sources certain microprocessors from Motorola. The supply agreement does not obligate the Company make minimum purchase commitments; however, the agreement does commit the vendor supply the Company\' requirements the particular items for the duration the agreement. Further discussion relating availability and supply components may found under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Patents, trademarks, copyrights and licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer and peripheral systems. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks the United States and number foreign countries for "Apple", the Apple silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh", Newton, the Newton Lightbulb logo, and numerous other product trademarks. , the Company acquired ownership the trademark "Macintosh" for use connection with computer products. Although the Company believes that the ownership such patents, copyrights, and trademarks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\' products may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company believes the resolution any claim infringements would not have material adverse effect its financial condition and results operations reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing unfavorable resolution any such claims infringement, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flow could materially affected particular period. The Company has from time time entered into cross-licensing agreements with other companies. Seasonal business Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due holiday demand for and calendar year-end buying some its products. However, past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. Warranty The Company offers parts and labor limited warranty its products. The warranty period one year from the date purchase the end user. The Company also offers -day warranty for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage all Apple hardware products. Customers customer the Company accounted for % more net sales each the fiscal years , , and . Backlog general, the Company\' resellers typically purchase products - needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders (backlog) can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog unfilled orders decreased slightly approximately $ million December , from $ million December , . The Company\' backlog December , consists primarily its higher- end Power Macintosh products. The Company expects that substantially all its orders backlog December , will either shipped canceled during fiscal . the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because over- ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found under Part , Item this Annual Report Form - under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Competition The market for the design, manufacture and sale personal computers, personal digital assistants, and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development that have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and has resulted the frequent introduction new products. The principal competitive factors this market are relative price performance, product quality and reliability, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further discussion relating the competitive conditions the personal computing industry and the Company\' competitive position the market place may found under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Research and development Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, and networking and communications. The Company\' research and development expenditures totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , and , respectively. Further information regarding the Company\' & expenditures for fiscal year set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Operating Expenses," which information hereby incorporated reference. Environmental laws Compliance with United States federal, state, and local laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given that such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. Employees September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , regular employees, and additional , temporary part-time contractors and employees. Foreign and domestic operations and geographic data Information regarding financial data geographic area and the risks associated with international operations set forth under Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information", and under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and domestic sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and anti-dumping penalties. Item . Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Pacific. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, service and support center. addition, the Company owns the research and development facility located Cupertino, California, and centralized domestic data center Napa, California which approximate , and , square feet, respectively. Outside the United States, the Company owns facility Apeldoorn, Netherlands, which used primarily for distribution, totaling approximately , square feet, addition certain other international facilities, totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested additional internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Legal Proceedings Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation", included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . Executive Officers the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers the Company December , : Michael . Spindler*, President and Chief Executive Officer (age ). . Spindler joined the Company European Marketing Manager September , was promoted Vice President and General Manager, Europe January , was named Vice President, International February , and was promoted Senior Vice President, International Sales and Marketing November . . Spindler was appointed Senior Vice President, International January , Senior Vice President, Apple Europe Division April , and was promoted President, Apple Europe August . While remaining President Apple Europe, . Spindler was also named Senior Vice President Apple Computer, Inc. February . January , . Spindler was promoted Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Apple Computer, Inc., and November was elected President. January , . Spindler was elected member the Company\' Board Directors. . Spindler was appointed the position Chief Executive Officer June . . Spindler also director Bertelsmann . James . Buckley*, Senior Vice President and President, Apple Americas (age ). . Buckley joined the Company - and Higher Education Sales Manager May and was promoted Director the same group January . May , . Buckley was named Area Director, North Central Area, appointed Vice President, Central Operations April , was promoted Vice President, Northern Operations May , and was appointed Vice President and General Manager, Higher Education Division April . January , . Buckley was named Senior Vice President and President, Apple USA, October , was named President, Apple North America, and November , was named President, Apple Americas. John Floisand*, Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific (age ). . Floisand joined the Company May , Director Sales, Apple Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom. October , . Floisand was named Director Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division, and February was promoted Vice President, Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division. . Floisand was named Vice President and President, Apple Pacific August . October , . Floisand was promoted Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific. . Frederick Forsyth*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations (age ). . Forsyth joined the Company June , Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing, Apple Products Division. . Forsyth was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing November , and April was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Systems Division. June , . Forsyth assumed responsibility for Worldwide Operations. Prior joining the Company, . Forsyth was employed Digital Equipment Corporation ("DEC"), manufacturer networked computer systems and associated peripheral equipment, from November June , where served various managerial positions, most recently Group Manager, Low End Systems Manufacturing from November June . Marco Landi* , Senior Vice President and President, Apple Europe (age ) . Landi joined the Company March , Senior Vice President and President Apple Europe assume responsibility for all Apple\' business operations throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Prior joining the Company, . Landi was employed Texas Instruments (" ") Europe President Europe, Middle East, and Africa, responsible for all \' business operations those regions. Prior that assignment, . Landi served for two years President Asia. David . Nagel*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Research and Development (age ). . Nagel joined the Company June , Manager the Applications Technology Group within the Advanced Technology Group. . Nagel was promoted Manager User Technologies June , Director User Technologies October , and finally Vice President the Advanced Technology Group April . December , . Nagel was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Advanced Technology Group and named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Software Architecture Division January . July , was named General Manager the AppleSoft Division. . Nagel was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Research and Development April . Kevin . Sullivan*, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age ). . Sullivan joined the Company April , Vice President, Human Resources. October , . Sullivan was promoted Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Jeanne Seeley, Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller (age ). . Seeley joined the Company October , the Controller for the Peripherals Division. June , . Seeley was promoted Senior Controller for the Operations Group, was named Director Finance July , and was promoted Senior Director Finance January . November , . Seeley was promoted Vice President, Finance. . Seeley was appointed Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller May . Edward . Stead*, Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary (age ). . Stead joined the Company September , Associate General Counsel. was named Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary the Company June . September , . Stead assumed the additional position Secretary. *Information regarding employment agreements between certain executive officers and the Company set forth the section entitled "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change Control Arrangements" and "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers" the Company\' Proxy Statement, which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)," which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) ANNUAL Five fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share ( thousands) , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ $ , $ $ , $ Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ $ $ $ $ Deferred tax liabilities $ $ $ $ $ Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. All information based the Company\' fiscal calendar. (Tabular information: Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Results Operations Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin $ , % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Research and development $ % $ - % $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Operating expenses (excluding restructuring costs) $ , % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ ( ) - % $ ( ) - % $ Percentage net sales ( %) ( %) % Interest and other income (expense), net $ ( ) % $ ( ) - % $ Net income $ % $ % $ Earnings per share $ % $ % $ Net Sales Net sales increased $ , million, %, fiscal , compared with increase $ , million, %, fiscal . The net sales growth over was primarily due combination unit growth, higher average selling prices, and changes currency exchange rates. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased approximately % over the prior year. This unit sales growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' Power Macintosh products, which accounted for over % total unit shipments the end the fourth quarter , compared with % the comparable period , and from sales newer product offerings within the Performa family desktop personal computers. This unit growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' older product offerings. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased % compared with , primarily due shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations. The net sales growth over was primarily due two factors: unit sales growth and, lesser extent, increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased % over the prior year. This growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' new Power Macintosh products and newer product offerings within the Macintosh Performa family desktop personal computers and, lesser extent, from sales products within the PowerBook family notebook personal computers. This growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' more established products and older product versions. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly, primarily due fluctuations product mix throughout the year, despite pricing actions undertaken the Company response continuing industrywide pricing pressures. International net sales grew % from , primarily reflecting strong net sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan, and favorable changes currency exchange rates. Net sales grew moderately Europe over the same period. International net sales grew % from , primarily reflecting strong net sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales and % net sales . Domestic net sales grew % over the prior year, compared with increase % over , primarily resulting from strong growth the education and consumer markets. general, the Company\' resellers typically purchase products - needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders ("backlog") can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog was approximately $ million December , , consisting primarily the Company\' higher-end Power Macintosh products. the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. For further information regarding the Company\' backlog, refer page Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Gross Margin Gross margin represents the difference between the Company\' net sales and its cost goods sold. The amount revenue generated the sale products influenced principally the price set the Company for its products relative competitive products. The cost goods sold based primarily the cost components and, lesser extent, direct labor costs. The type and cost components included particular configurations the Company\' products (such memory and disk drives) are often directly related the need market products configurations competitive with those other manufacturers. Competition the personal computer industry intense, and the short term, frequent changes pricing and product configuration are often necessary order remain competitive. Accordingly, gross margin percentage net sales can significantly influenced the short term actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pressures. Gross margin increased both amount and percentage net sales compared with . The increase gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result shift product mix toward the Company\' newer, high-margin products, which included strong sales certain products within the Company\' Power Macintosh family personal computers and its entry-level Macintosh Performa family. The increase gross margin levels was affected favorably changes foreign currency exchange rates result weaker . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account changes exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. Gross margin declined percentage net sales from levels. The downward trend gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result pricing and promotional actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pricing pressures. Gross margin was also affected somewhat adversely changes foreign currency exchange rates result stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . Results from the Company\' ongoing foreign currency hedging activities offset portion this adverse foreign currency impact gross margin. Although the Company\' gross margin percentage was % , gross margin percentage net sales declined % the fourth quarter , primarily due aggressive pricing actions and product mix issues related component availability and delays new PowerPC processor-based product production. anticipated that gross margins will continue remain under significant pressure and are likely remain comparable the level reported for the fourth quarter due variety factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, particularly Japan, and compressed product life cycles. Research and Development Research and development expenditures increased amount during when compared with , primarily due higher project- and headcount- related spending, the Company continues invest the development new products and technologies. The decrease research and development expenditures during compared with reflected the results the Company\' restructuring actions aimed reducing costs, including product development expenditures. Research and development expenditures percentage net sales have continued decrease since result revenue growth during and , coupled with the Company\' continuing efforts focus its research and development project spending efficient manner. The Company believes that continued focused investment research and development critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace, and directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased amount, but decreased percentage net sales, compared with . This increase expense was primarily result increased advertising and channel marketing program spending the Company continued its efforts expand its market share. Although the Company has increased its selling and marketing expenses effort expand its market share, there can assurance that such increase spending will result corresponding increase market share. The decrease percentage net sales since primarily result revenue growth during and , combined with the Company\' ongoing efforts manage total operating expense growth. , selling, general and administrative expenses decreased amount and percentage net sales compared with , primarily because lower employee-related and facilities costs resulting from the restructuring actions taken the third quarter . Revenue growth also contributed the decrease selling, general and administrative expenses percentage net sales. The Company will continue face the challenge managing growth selling, general and administrative expenses relative gross margin levels, particularly light the Company\' expectation continued pressure gross margins and continued competitive pressures worldwide. Restructuring Costs For information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million expense from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change comprised $ million interest and other income attributable higher average cash balances, higher interest rates, and interest rate hedging gains, offset part $ million unfavorable variance related realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging losses and foreign exchange hedging costs. Market volatility and higher foreign currency balances account for the increased hedging cost. , interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million expense from $ million income , resulting $ million unfavorable change. Higher interest rates and larger average borrowing balances used fund working capital needs served significantly increase interest expense, and accounted for $ million the $ million change during . Other factors contributing this variance included interest income, which was higher than primarily due $ million interest payment received nonrecurring income tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service , and interest income from the Company\' interest rate risk management program, which contributed $ million , and reduced interest income $ million . For more information regarding the Company\' strategy and accounting for financial and other derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for Income Taxes Change Change Provision for income taxes $ % $ % $ Effective tax rate % % % The Company\' effective tax rate decreased % compared with rate % and . For additional information regarding income taxes, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. Product Introductions and Transitions Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products and product enhancements. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, and the manufacturing products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. , the Company introduced Power Macintosh, new line Macintosh computers based new PowerPC family RISC microprocessors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition may adversely affected unable successfully complete the transition its lines personal computers and servers from the Motorola series microprocessors the PowerPC microprocessor. The success this ongoing transition will depend the Company\' ability continue sell products based the Motorola series microprocessors while continuing gain market acceptance the new PowerPC processor-based products, successfully manage inventory levels both product lines simultaneously, and continue coordinate the timely development and distribution independent software vendors new "native" software applications specifically designed for the PowerPC processor-based products. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and result deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. The preceding may also offset other factors, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply product previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply product. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European- language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the United States, even though localized versions the Company\' products may available. Competition The personal computer industry highly competitive and continues characterized consolidations the hardware and software industries, aggressive pricing practices, and downward pressure gross margins. For example, Japan, other companies have begun initiate extreme competitive actions order gain market share, and result, the Company has implemented incremental pricing and promotional activities. The Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected should the Company unable effectively manage the impact industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability offer customers competitive technologies while effectively managing the impact inventory levels and the potential for customer confusion created product proliferation. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. November , , the Company reached agreement with IBM and Motorola, Inc. new hardware reference platform for the PowerPC microprocessor that intended deliver much wider range operating system and application choices for computer customers. result this agreement, the Company moving forward with its efforts make the Macintosh operating system available the common platform. line with its efforts, November , , the Company, IBM, and Motorola, Inc. announced the availability the "PowerPC Platform," which set specifications that defines "unified" personal computer architecture and combines the Power Macintosh platform and the environment. Accordingly, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability continue implement this agreement and certain other collaboration agreements, and manage the associated competitive risk. The Company currently the primary maker hardware that uses the Macintosh operating system, and has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the -DOS (registered trademark) and Microsoft Windows (trademark) operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability increase market share its personal computer business. part its efforts increase overall market share, the Company announced the licensing the Macintosh operating system other personal computer vendors January , and several vendors currently sell product that utilize the Macintosh operating system. The success the Company\' efforts increase its overall market share through licensing the Macintosh operating system will depend part the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with competing with companies producing Macintosh -based computer systems. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that licensing the Macintosh operating system will have its product pricing and unit sales future operating results and financial condition. The Company believes that licensing the operating system will result broader installed base which software vendors can develop and provide technical innovations for the Macintosh platform. However, there can assurance that the installed base will broadened the licensing the operating system that licensing will result increase the number application software titles the rate which vendors will bring market application software based the Macintosh operating system. The Company\' principal competitor producing operating system software, Microsoft Corporation, large, well-financed corporation which has dominant position various segments the personal computer software industry. August , Microsoft Corporation released Windows , another its operating system offerings. result the introduction Windows , the Company has taken and will continue take steps address the additional challenges and competitive pressures its efforts developing and marketing the Company\' products. Accordingly, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected should the Company unable effectively manage the competitive pressure and other challenges presented the introduction Windows . Certain the Company\' personal computer products are capable running application software designed for the -DOS Windows operating systems ("Cross-Platform Products"), through software emulation Intel Corporation microprocessor chips use software specifically designed for the Company\' products, either those based the Motorola series microprocessors those based the PowerPC microprocessor. The Company has also introduced products that include both the RISC- based PowerPC microprocessor and the DX2 microprocessor, which enable users switch between the Macintosh and DOS Windows computing environments. The Company currently supplies customers who purchase Cross-Platform Products capable running the -DOS Windows operating system with operating system software under licensing agreement with Microsoft. This license agreement expires December , (the "Old License Agreement"). The Company has attempted license Windows software from Microsoft but has been unable because the Company\' unwillingness consent Microsoft\' demand under Microsoft\' proposed license agreement (the "New License Agreement") that the Company agree not sue Microsoft Microsoft infringes any the Company\' patents. Microsoft has also informed the Company that will not renew the Old License Agreement unless the Company accepts the New License Agreement. Accordingly, unless appropriate licensing agreement reached, upon the expiration the Old License Agreement, the Company will unable supply customers with any Microsoft\' operating systems Cross- Platform Products. Although customers could obtain copies such software from other sources, the Company unable predict the effect such situation the demand for Cross-Platform Products. Although Cross-Platform Products represented only small portion the Company\' unit sales during , the Company unable predict the effect such situation the Company\' future operating results. Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed -DOS Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part the third- party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. This analysis based factors such the relative market share the Company\' products, the anticipated potential revenue that may earned, and the costs developing such software products. Microsoft Corporation important developer application software for the Company\' products. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Company\' products may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests operating system vendor. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers the PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain the Company\' products, continue supply the Company microprocessors that produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, the developer and producer the microprocessors used most personal computers using the -DOS and Windows operating systems. IBM produces personal computers based the Intel microprocessors well the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Macintosh operating system. Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with improved versions microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability successfully expand and capitalize its investments other markets, such the markets for Internet services and personal digital assistant (PDA) products. Global Market Risks large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operations and financial results could significantly affected international factors, such changes foreign currency exchange rates weak economic conditions the foreign markets which the Company distributes its products. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). mitigate the short-term impact fluctuating currency exchange rates the Company\' non- . dollar-based sales, product procurement, and operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non- . dollar- based exposures. Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts hedge firmly committed transactions. Currently, hedges firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. Hedges probable, but not firmly committed transactions currently not extend beyond one year. reduce the costs associated with these ongoing foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for hedges, including all transactions intended reduce the costs associated with the Company\' foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Refer the Financial Instruments footnote pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. While the Company exposed with respect fluctuations the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well interest paid its short-term borrowings and long-term debt. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap and option transactions. Certain these swaps are intended better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the fixed- rate interest expense its long-term debt. The Company also enters into interest rate swap and option transactions order diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. These instruments may extend the Company\' cash investment horizon maximum effective duration three years. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap and option positions stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate-related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures, and such, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company generally does not engage leveraged hedging. Inventory and Supply The Company\' ability satisfy demand for its products may limited the availability key components. The Company believes that the availability from suppliers the personal computer industry microprocessors and ASICs presents the most significant potential for constraining the Company\' ability produce products. Specific microprocessors manufactured Motorola, Inc. and IBM are currently available only from single sources, while some advanced microprocessors are currently the early stages ramp- for production and thus have limited availability. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead custom components. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition, including loss market share. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also adversely affected the Company\' ability manage inventory levels and lead times required obtain components order more responsive short-term shifts customer demand patterns. addition, anticipated unit sales growth for new and current product offerings not realized, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. Marketing and Distribution number uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company\' primary means distribution through third-party computer resellers. However, the Company continuing its expansion into various consumer channels, such mass-merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets, and computer superstores. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens resellers within consumer channels decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Other Factors The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. The Company currently the process replacing its current transaction systems (which include order management, distribution, manufacturing, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected unable implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. April , the Company announced companywide reorganization designed more closely align the Company\' organizational structure with the Company\' business strategy placing increased focus customer needs and expanding its presence the home, education, and business markets. November , the Company announced further companywide reorganization accelerate the implementation its market segmentation strategy. The Company\' reorganization will result the consolidation its sales, marketing, and customer solutions organization into three geographic business units, namely, the Americas, Europe, and Japan and Asia. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected its ability effectively manage the transition these new organizational structures. Although uncertain this time, the Company may incur future restructuring charges result these reorganizations. Historically, the Company has experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters due holiday demand for and calendar year- end buying some its products. the date this Annual Report, published reports relating the . economy indicated potentially unfavorable year-end buying season. Any general economic slowdown could adversely affect demand for the Company\' products, which could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net short-term borrowings, decreased $ million September , , from $ million September , . Less cash was generated operations compared with , primarily result growth inventory levels and increase accounts receivable. Inventory levels grew during order support anticipated demand the first quarter for the Company\' new products. Accounts receivable also increased, reflecting the higher sales levels achieved during , primarily toward the end the fourth quarter. Cash used for operations was partially offset cash generated from higher sales and accounts payable levels. The increased sales levels were driven aggressive pricing and promotional actions coupled with strong demand for the Company\' PowerPC processor-based products. Accounts payable increased result the growth inventory and production levels and longer payment terms negotiated with vendors. More cash was generated operations compared with , primarily due significant decrease inventory levels, well increased sales levels. The significant decrease inventory levels during resulted from improved inventory management, higher sales levels attributable various pricing and promotional actions, and strong sales new product inventory which had been built preparation for the introduction Power Macintosh. Profit levels improved operating expenses decreased due the Company\' implementation restructuring actions initiated the third quarter . Cash generated operations was partially offset cash used for restructuring and increase accounts receivable. The increase accounts receivable reflected increase sales levels achieved during . The balance accrued restructuring costs decreased the restructuring actions initiated the third quarter continued implemented. addition, the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. Excluding short-term investments, net cash used for investments increased compared with and levels. Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and was primarily made increases manufacturing machinery and equipment. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures will remain relatively consistent with expenditure levels. The Company leases the majority its facilities and certain its equipment under noncancelable operating leases. , rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million. The Company\' future lease commitments are discussed page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Short-term borrowings September , , were approximately $ million higher than September , . These borrowings were primarily made fund expected working capital growth certain markets worldwide. general, the Company\' short-term borrowings reflect borrowings made under its commercial paper program and short-term loans from certain commercial banks. particular, Apple Japan, Inc. and Apple Computer (Netherlands), subsidiaries the Company, held short- term borrowings from several banks, totaling approximately $ million and $ million, respectively, September , . The Company\' balance long-term debt remained relatively constant during . , $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes were issued under omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration was for the registration debt and other securities for aggregate offering amount $ million. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . The % fixed rate was subsequently effectively converted floating rate through ten-year interest rate swaps based the three-month . dollar London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. anticipated that any margin the Company may required post the future would not have material adverse effect the Company\' liquidity position. The Company expects that will continue incur short- and long-term borrowings from time time finance . working capital needs and capital expenditures, because substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries, generally . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated. Refer the Income Taxes footnote pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company believes that its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations and short- and long-term borrowing capabilities, will sufficient meet its operating cash requirements short- and long-term basis. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Income for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Financial Statement Schedules: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Valuation and qualifying accounts - All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements income, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars millions) September , , and September , Assets: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ $ , Short-term investments Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ ($ ) , , Inventories: Purchased parts Work process Finished goods , , Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment Other assets $ , $ , Liabilities and Shareholders\' Equity: Current liabilities: Short-term borrowings $ $ Accounts payable , Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued marketing and distribution Other current liabilities Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt Deferred tax liabilities Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares ) Retained earnings , , Other ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Income (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost sales , , , Research and development Selling, general and administrative , , , Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) , , , Operating income Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share ( thousands) , , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Total Common Stock Share- Shares Retained holders\' ( Thousands) Amount Earnings Other Equity Balance September , , $ $ , $ -- $ , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- ( ) Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net income -- -- -- Balance September , , , ( ) , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Balance September , , , ( ) , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for- sale securities -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Other -- -- -- Balance September , , $ $ , $ $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows (Dollars millions) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period $ , $ $ Operations: Net income Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated (used for) operations: Depreciation and amortization Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Accrued restructuring costs ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) ( ) Deferred tax liabilities Cash generated (used for) operations ( ) ( ) Investments: Purchase short-term investments ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale short-term investments , , Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) investment activities ( ) ( ) Financing: Increase (decrease) short-term borrowings ( ) Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings ( ) ( ) Increases common stock, net related tax benefits Repurchase common stock -- -- ( ) Cash dividends ( ) ( ) ( ) Other -- -- ( ) Cash generated (used for ) financing activities ( ) Total cash generated (used) ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the period $ $ , $ Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for: Interest $ $ $ Income taxes, net $ $ $ Schedule non-cash transactions: Tax benefit from stock options $ $ $ See accompanying notes. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Summary Significant Accounting Policies Basis Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. Advertising Costs Advertising costs, except for costs associated with direct-response advertising, are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. The costs direct-response advertising are capitalized and amortized over the period during which future benefits are expected received. Foreign Currency Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation are accumulated separate component shareholders\' equity until the foreign entity sold liquidated. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included the consolidated statement income. Financial Instruments Investments All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. There are investments with maturities greater than twelve months. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings that are intended indefinitely invested. Effective October , , the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities." accordance with FAS , prior period financial statements have not been restated reflect the change accounting principle. The cumulative effect the change was not material shareholders\' equity October , . Under FAS , debt securities that company has both the positive intent and ability hold maturity are carried amortized cost. Debt securities that company does not have the positive intent and ability hold maturity and all marketable equity securities are classified either available-for-sale trading and are carried fair value. Generally, unrealized holding gains and losses securities classified available- for-sale are reported component shareholders\' equity. Unrealized holding gains and losses securities classified trading are included earnings. The Company\' cash equivalents consist primarily . Government securities, Euro-dollar deposits, and commercial paper with maturities three months less the date purchase. Short-term investments consist principally Euro-dollar deposits and commercial paper with maturities between three and twelve months. The Company\' marketable equity securities consist securities issued . corporations and are included "Other assets" the accompanying balance sheet. September , , the Company\' cash equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable equity securities are classified and accounted for available-for-sale and are generally held until maturity. Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off- balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for other than risk management purposes. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are included the carrying amounts those assets liabilities and are ultimately recognized income part those carrying amounts. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firm commitments anticipated transactions are also deferred and are recognized income adjustments carrying amounts when the hedged transaction occurs. Realized and unrealized gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange contracts that not qualify accounting hedges are recognized quarterly component interest and other income (expense), net. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Interest Rate Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps and options, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. These instruments are also used diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. Foreign Currency Instruments The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms their high correlation with the . dollar. Probable, but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase foreign exchange option contracts used hedge both firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. addition, the Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. The duration foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions for probable, but not firmly committed transactions, currently does not exceed one year. For further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment its investments and other financial and derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes The income tax provisions for and have been determined accordance with statement Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Income Taxes," whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. The Company adopted FAS effective the first day fiscal prospective basis, and the financial statements years ended prior have not been restated. The cumulative effect the change was not material. Prior , the Company accounted for income taxes under the provisions APB Opinion . , which recognized deferred taxes for the effect timing differences between pretax accounting income and taxable income. Under the deferred method APB Opinion . , deferred taxes were not adjusted for subsequent changes tax rates. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries. intended that these earnings will indefinitely invested operations outside the United States. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely invested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Earnings per Share Earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and dilutive common equivalent shares attributable stock options outstanding during the period. Loss per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding during the period. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight- line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has not elected early adoption Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." FAS becomes effective beginning with the Company\' first quarter fiscal year , and will not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Upon adoption FAS , the Company will continue measure compensation expense for its stock- based employee compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed APB Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees" and will provide pro forma disclosures net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method prescribed FAS had been applied measuring compensation expense. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements Cash Flows and the Industry Segment and Geographic Information and Income Taxes footnotes have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Financial Instruments Investments The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities September , : ( millions) Gross Gross Estimated Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost Gains Losses Value . Treasury securities and obligations . government agencies $ $ -- $ -- $ . corporate debt securities -- -- Foreign government securities ( ) -- Total included cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ -- $ . corporate debt securities $ $ -- $ -- $ Foreign government securities -- -- Total included short-term investments $ $ -- $ -- $ Equity securities $ $ $ -- $ Total included other assets $ $ $ -- $ Total $ , $ $ -- $ , ( ) The $ million represents gross unrealized gains interest rate hedging transactions. Gross unrealized holding gains losses available-for-sale securities are recorded component shareholders\' equity, and include any unrealized gains and losses interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the underlying securities. the $ million gross unrealized gains related equity securities, approximately $ million relates securities that are restricted from sale until February . The gross realized gains recorded earnings sales available-for- sale securities were $ million . There were gross realized losses recorded earnings sales available-for-sale securities . The cost securities sold based the specific identification method. Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments The table page shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , , and September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. ( millions) ----------------------- ----------------------- Notional Fair Credit Notional Fair Credit Principal Value Risk Principal Value Risk Amount Amount Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) -- Interest rate collars $ --( ) --( ) -- -- -- Sold options $ --( ) -- -- -- -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot / Forward contracts $ , $ $ $ , $ ( ) $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options -- -- -- $ $ ( ) -- Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ --( ) -- -- -- -- Sold options $ $ ( ) -- $ --( ) -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts -- -- -- $ --( ) --( ) Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ , $ ( ) -- $ , $ ( ) -- ( ) Fair value less than $ million. The interest rate swaps shown above generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. Maturity dates for interest rate swaps currently range from one ten years. September , , and September , , interest rate swaps classified receive-fixed swaps had weighted average receive rates % and %, respectively. Weighted average pay rates these swaps were % and % September , , and September , , respectively. Interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. Interest rate collars limit the Company\' exposure fluctuations short-term interest rates locking range interest rates. interest rate collar -cost structure that consists purchased option and sold option. The Company receives payment when the three-month LIBOR falls below predetermined levels, and makes payment when the three- month LIBOR rises above predetermined levels. The entire structure generally qualifies accounting hedge. All interest rate option contracts outstanding September , , expire within three years. Interest rate contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. Unrealized gains and losses interest rate contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized losses such agreements totaled approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively, primarily reflecting the net present value unrealized losses the ten-year swap contracts, which effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten-year debt floating- rate debt. The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates, and the adjustment recognized income that time. Unrealized gains and losses foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Deferred gains and losses such agreements September , , and September , , were immaterial. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. Purchased foreign exchange option contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment are reported the balance sheet the premium cost, which amortized over the life the option. Unrealized gains and losses these option contracts are deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction and recognized component the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such agreements were immaterial September , , and September , . September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts ranged from one twelve months. Purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts that not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are carried fair value and, such, are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Gains and losses associated with these financial instruments are recorded currently income. September , , maturity dates for these sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Fair Values Other Financial Instruments The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' other financial instruments are follows: ( millions) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Amount Value Amount Value Cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ , $ , Short-term investments $ $ $ $ Short-term borrowings $ $ $ $ Long-term debt: Ten-year unsecured notes $ $ $ $ Other $ $ $ $ Short-term investments are carried cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value. The carrying amount short-term borrowings approximates their fair value due their short-term maturities. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market value September , . Concentrations Credit Risk The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' long-term debt. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. Advertising Costs There were direct-response advertising costs reported assets September , , and September , . Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Borrowings Short-Term Borrowings ( millions) Commercial paper $ -- $ Notes payable banks $ $ The weighted average interest rates for Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , and September , , were approximately % and %, respectively. The weighted average interest rate for . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , , was approximately %. The Company had . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , . The weighted average interest rate for commercial paper borrowings September , , was approximately %. Interest expense short-term borrowings was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Long-Term Debt February , , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . Interest expense long- term debt for the years ended September , , and September , , was $ million and $ million, respectively. For information regarding the Company\' estimated fair value short- term and long-term debt, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Operations the third quarter , the Company initiated plan restructure its operations worldwide order address the competitive conditions the personal computer industry, including the increased market demand for lower-priced products. connection with this plan, the Company recorded $ million charge operating expenses ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). The restructuring costs included $ million estimated employee-related expenses and $ million estimated facilities, equipment, and other expenses associated with the consolidation operations and the relocation and termination certain operations and employees. The restructuring plan originally contemplated the termination relocation approximately , employees worldwide and reduction worldwide office space, which primarily consisted approximately million square feet office space the San Francisco Bay Area, within one year from the date the restructuring was initiated. the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the total costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. addition, some actions were completed lower cost than originally estimated. The most significant element the adjustment was associated with $ million costs accrued terminate move number employees from the San Francisco Bay Area lower-cost location. This element the Company\' restructuring plan was expected result the termination relocation approximately , employees and the closure certain leased facilities, cost $ million and $ million, respectively. However, the expected benefits this move were reduced since the plan\' inception because changes the cost differential between the Company\' current and alternative locations. For example, the Company favorably renegotiated the lease terms certain facilities its current locations, the salary growth rate differentials between the Bay Area and alternative locations were reduced, and changes the California income tax laws made more attractive for companies business California. The Company canceled this action the third quarter , when management decided that the extended estimated pay-back period longer justified the initial cash investment and the unquantifiable cost business disruption that such move would precipitate. the end fiscal year , approximately , employees had been terminated cost approximately $ million termination benefits, and approximately had been relocated. The Company had reduced its use office space the Bay Area approximately , square feet. During , the Company further lowered its estimates the total remaining costs associated with its restructuring plan initiated the third quarter and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected favorable cancelation settlements certain & project commitments and facility leases and the completion other actions lower costs than originally estimated. September , , the Company had $ million accrued restructuring costs for actions that are currently under way, the majority which are expected completed during . Approximately $ million this accrual represents cash charges expected incurred primarily for estimated facilities and other expenses. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists the following: ( millions) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss) ( ) Net premiums and discounts earned (paid) foreign exchange instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) -- ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Income Taxes ( millions) The provision for income taxes consists the following: FAS Method APB Method Federal: Current $ $ $ Deferred ( ) ( ) State: Current Deferred Foreign: Current Deferred Provision for income taxes $ $ $ The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. The tax benefit credited directly common stock result compensation expense attributable employee stock option and purchase plans recognized differently for financial reporting and tax purposes was $ million . Under FAS , deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. September , , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were: ( millions) September , September , Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Total deferred tax assets Less: Valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Other Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax liability $ $ The net change the total valuation allowance was increase $ million and $ million and , respectively. Under APB Opinion . , deferred income taxes result from timing differences between years the recognition certain revenue and expense items for financial and tax reporting purposes. The sources timing differences and the related tax effects for are follows: ( millions) Income foreign subsidiaries not taxable current year $ Warranty, bad debt, and other expenses ( ) Depreciation ( ) Inventory valuation ( ) State income taxes Other individually immaterial items Total deferred taxes $ ( ) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , % , and % ) income before income taxes, follows: ( millions) FAS Method APB Method Computed expected tax $ $ $ State taxes, net federal benefit Research and development tax credit ( ) ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) ( ) Valuation allowance -- Other individually immaterial items Provision for income taxes $ $ $ Effective tax rate % % % The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies for the years through , and most the issues dispute for these years have been resolved. June , , the IRS issued notice deficiency proposing increases the amount the Company\' federal income taxes for the years through . The Company has filed petition with the United States Tax Court contest these alleged tax deficiencies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. Common Stock Shareholder Rights Plan May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( "Right") for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . Stock Option Plans The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") and Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the " Plan"). The Stock Option Plan terminated October . Options granted before that date remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. The Plan permits the granting nonstatutory options certain officers the Company purchase Apple common stock prices not less than % the fair market value the date grant. Options under the Plan are generally not exercisable for months after the date grant, and then become exercisable varying rates over the subsequent seven years, based continued service the Company. July , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million shares, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for January . Concurrently, the Board Directors also resolved terminate the Plan and transfer all unused shares remaining under the Plan the Plan, subject shareholder approval the aforementioned amendment the Plan. Summarized information regarding the Company\' stock option plans September , , follows: ( thousands, except per share amounts) Number Shares Price per Share Outstanding September , , $ - $ Granted , Exercised ( , ) $ - $ Expired canceled ( , ) Outstanding September , , $ - $ Exercisable , Reserved for issuance , Available for future grant , Restricted Stock Plan April , , the Company\' Board Directors approved Restricted Stock Plan for officers the Company (the "RSP"), which became effective July , . The RSP was subsequently ratified the shareholders January , . The RSP designed provide incentive for officers continue own shares the Company\' common stock acquired upon exercise options under any the Company\' Stock Option Plans, thus more closely aligning officers\' financial interests with those the shareholders. The RSP provides that officers who exercise stock options and continue hold the exercised shares for least three years will receive three awards shares restricted stock. Each such award for one-third the number shares held for the requisite retention period. Each restricted stock award granted pursuant the plan becomes fully vested three years after the grant date, provided that the officer maintains continuous employment with the Company and that other vesting requirements are met. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan") under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning end the offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. June , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million shares, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for January . Stock Repurchase Programs November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. shares were repurchased under this authorization ; approximately million shares were repurchased under this authorization . September , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. During , the Company repurchased the remaining shares under this authorization, which approximated million shares. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective October , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior October , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Preferred Stock Five million shares preferred stock have been authorized for issuance one more series. The Board Directors authorized fix the number and designation any such series and determine the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions granted imposed any such series. Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under these noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( millions) $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ Litigation Apple . Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company March , the Company filed suit the . District Court for the Northern District California (the "Court") against Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and Hewlett-Packard Company (" ") alleging that their Microsoft Windows and NewWave computer programs infringe the Company\' audiovisual copyrights protecting the Macintosh user interface. August , , the district court entered final judgment for Microsoft and , dismissing the Company\' action. September , , the Court denied defendants\' motions for award full defense costs and attorneys\' fees under . Section , but allowed defendants renew their motions should the Supreme Court alter the standard for the award attorneys\' fees copyright cases the case Fogerty . Fantasy, Inc., . . ( ). ------------------------ September , , the Company appealed the case the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. September , , the Court Appeals issued its decision affirming the district court judgment the merits but remanding the case the issue attorneys\' fees light the Fogerty decision. The Company filed petition for writ ------- ----------- certiorari the Supreme Court the United States December , - ---------- . The Company\' petition for writ certiorari was denied the Supreme ------------------ Court the United States February , . Accordingly, the decision the appellate court affirming the dismissal the Company\' copyright infringement case against Microsoft and now final. The requests Microsoft and for attorneys\' fees have been resolved settlement agreements. Accordingly, the matter has been entirely resolved. Industry Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. Geographic financial information follows: ( millions) Net sales unaffiliated customers: North America $ , $ , $ , Europe , , , Japan , , Pacific Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): North America $ $ $ Europe Japan -- -- Pacific , , , Total transfers $ , $ , $ , Operating income (loss): North America $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Europe Japan Pacific Eliminations ( ) Corporate income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes $ $ $ Identifiable assets: North America $ , $ , $ , Europe Japan Pacific Eliminations ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate assets , Total assets $ , $ , $ , "Europe" includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa. "Pacific" includes Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Latin America, and South America. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year\' presentation. Net sales unaffiliated customers based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charge recorded and the related adjustments recorded and are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, joint venture investments, and short-term investments. Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ - $ - $ - $ - $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ - $ - $ - $ - $ $ $ $ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined quarterly the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net income for the first quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Net income for the third quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Net income for the third quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . Item . Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - -Change Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedules The financial statement schedules the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through November , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Note due . ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant ** Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. 91K** Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , - ** Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ** Separation Agreement dated April , , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ** Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ** Retention Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. NOTES 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedules See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - - , - , - , - , - , and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, the Executive Restricted Stock Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedules Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER MICHAEL . SPINDLER President and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael . Spindler and Edward . Stead, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / Michael . Spindler / / Jeanne Seeley MICHAEL . SPINDLER JEANNE SEELEY President and Vice President, Finance, and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Controller (Principal Executive Officer), and (Principal Financial Officer) Director December , December , / / Armas . Markkula, / / Delano . Lewis ARMAS . MARKKULA, . DELANO . LEWIS Chairman the Board Director and Director December , December , / / Peter . Crisp / / Bernard Goldstein PETER . CRISP BERNARD GOLDSTEIN Director Director December , December , / / Jurgen Hintz / / Katherine Hudson . JURGEN HINTZ KATHERINE HUDSON Director Director December , December , / / Gilbert . Amelio . GILBERT . AMELIO Director December , Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ( millions) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Deductions Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses ( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ ____________________________________________ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Note due . ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ( ) Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page - ( ) Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ( ) Separation Agreement dated April , , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ( ) Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Pacific. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, service and support center. addition, the Company owns the research and development facility located Cupertino, California, and centralized domestic data center Napa, California which approximate , and , square feet, respectively. Outside the United States, the Company owns facility Apeldoorn, Netherlands, which used primarily for distribution, totaling approximately , square feet, addition certain other international facilities, totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested additional internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation", included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . Executive Officers the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers the Company December , : Michael . Spindler*, President and Chief Executive Officer (age ). . Spindler joined the Company European Marketing Manager September , was promoted Vice President and General Manager, Europe January , was named Vice President, International February , and was promoted Senior Vice President, International Sales and Marketing November . . Spindler was appointed Senior Vice President, International January , Senior Vice President, Apple Europe Division April , and was promoted President, Apple Europe August . While remaining President Apple Europe, . Spindler was also named Senior Vice President Apple Computer, Inc. February . January , . Spindler was promoted Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Apple Computer, Inc., and November was elected President. January , . Spindler was elected member the Company\' Board Directors. . Spindler was appointed the position Chief Executive Officer June . . Spindler also director Bertelsmann . James . Buckley*, Senior Vice President and President, Apple Americas (age ). . Buckley joined the Company - and Higher Education Sales Manager May and was promoted Director the same group January . May , . Buckley was named Area Director, North Central Area, appointed Vice President, Central Operations April , was promoted Vice President, Northern Operations May , and was appointed Vice President and General Manager, Higher Education Division April . January , . Buckley was named Senior Vice President and President, Apple USA, October , was named President, Apple North America, and November , was named President, Apple Americas. John Floisand*, Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific (age ). . Floisand joined the Company May , Director Sales, Apple Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom. October , . Floisand was named Director Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division, and February was promoted Vice President, Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division. . Floisand was named Vice President and President, Apple Pacific August . October , . Floisand was promoted Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific. . Frederick Forsyth*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations (age ). . Forsyth joined the Company June , Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing, Apple Products Division. . Forsyth was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing November , and April was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Systems Division. June , . Forsyth assumed responsibility for Worldwide Operations. Prior joining the Company, . Forsyth was employed Digital Equipment Corporation ("DEC"), manufacturer networked computer systems and associated peripheral equipment, from November June , where served various managerial positions, most recently Group Manager, Low End Systems Manufacturing from November June . Marco Landi* , Senior Vice President and President, Apple Europe (age ) . Landi joined the Company March , Senior Vice President and President Apple Europe assume responsibility for all Apple\' business operations throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Prior joining the Company, . Landi was employed Texas Instruments (" ") Europe President Europe, Middle East, and Africa, responsible for all \' business operations those regions. Prior that assignment, . Landi served for two years President Asia. David . Nagel*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Research and Development (age ). . Nagel joined the Company June , Manager the Applications Technology Group within the Advanced Technology Group. . Nagel was promoted Manager User Technologies June , Director User Technologies October , and finally Vice President the Advanced Technology Group April . December , . Nagel was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Advanced Technology Group and named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Software Architecture Division January . July , was named General Manager the AppleSoft Division. . Nagel was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Research and Development April . Kevin . Sullivan*, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age ). . Sullivan joined the Company April , Vice President, Human Resources. October , . Sullivan was promoted Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Jeanne Seeley, Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller (age ). . Seeley joined the Company October , the Controller for the Peripherals Division. June , . Seeley was promoted Senior Controller for the Operations Group, was named Director Finance July , and was promoted Senior Director Finance January . November , . Seeley was promoted Vice President, Finance. . Seeley was appointed Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller May . Edward . Stead*, Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary (age ). . Stead joined the Company September , Associate General Counsel. was named Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary the Company June . September , . Stead assumed the additional position Secretary. *Information regarding employment agreements between certain executive officers and the Company set forth the section entitled "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change Control Arrangements" and "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers" the Company\' Proxy Statement, which information hereby incorporated reference. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) ANNUAL Five fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share ( thousands) , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ $ , $ $ , $ Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ $ $ $ $ Deferred tax liabilities $ $ $ $ $ ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. All information based the Company\' fiscal calendar. (Tabular information: Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Results Operations Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin $ , % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Research and development $ % $ - % $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Operating expenses (excluding restructuring costs) $ , % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ ( ) - % $ ( ) - % $ Percentage net sales ( %) ( %) % Interest and other income (expense), net $ ( ) % $ ( ) - % $ Net income $ % $ % $ Earnings per share $ % $ % $ Net Sales Net sales increased $ , million, %, fiscal , compared with increase $ , million, %, fiscal . The net sales growth over was primarily due combination unit growth, higher average selling prices, and changes currency exchange rates. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased approximately % over the prior year. This unit sales growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' Power Macintosh products, which accounted for over % total unit shipments the end the fourth quarter , compared with % the comparable period , and from sales newer product offerings within the Performa family desktop personal computers. This unit growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' older product offerings. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased % compared with , primarily due shift product mix toward the Company\' newer products and products with multimedia configurations. The net sales growth over was primarily due two factors: unit sales growth and, lesser extent, increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased % over the prior year. This growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' new Power Macintosh products and newer product offerings within the Macintosh Performa family desktop personal computers and, lesser extent, from sales products within the PowerBook family notebook personal computers. This growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' more established products and older product versions. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly, primarily due fluctuations product mix throughout the year, despite pricing actions undertaken the Company response continuing industrywide pricing pressures. International net sales grew % from , primarily reflecting strong net sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan, and favorable changes currency exchange rates. Net sales grew moderately Europe over the same period. International net sales grew % from , primarily reflecting strong net sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales and % net sales . Domestic net sales grew % over the prior year, compared with increase % over , primarily resulting from strong growth the education and consumer markets. general, the Company\' resellers typically purchase products - needed basis. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders ("backlog") can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other production fulfillment constraints exist. The Company\' backlog was approximately $ million December , , consisting primarily the Company\' higher-end Power Macintosh products. the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because overordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. For further information regarding the Company\' backlog, refer page Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Gross Margin Gross margin represents the difference between the Company\' net sales and its cost goods sold. The amount revenue generated the sale products influenced principally the price set the Company for its products relative competitive products. The cost goods sold based primarily the cost components and, lesser extent, direct labor costs. The type and cost components included particular configurations the Company\' products (such memory and disk drives) are often directly related the need market products configurations competitive with those other manufacturers. Competition the personal computer industry intense, and the short term, frequent changes pricing and product configuration are often necessary order remain competitive. Accordingly, gross margin percentage net sales can significantly influenced the short term actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pressures. Gross margin increased both amount and percentage net sales compared with . The increase gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result shift product mix toward the Company\' newer, high-margin products, which included strong sales certain products within the Company\' Power Macintosh family personal computers and its entry-level Macintosh Performa family. The increase gross margin levels was affected favorably changes foreign currency exchange rates result weaker . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account changes exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. Gross margin declined percentage net sales from levels. The downward trend gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result pricing and promotional actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pricing pressures. Gross margin was also affected somewhat adversely changes foreign currency exchange rates result stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . Results from the Company\' ongoing foreign currency hedging activities offset portion this adverse foreign currency impact gross margin. Although the Company\' gross margin percentage was % , gross margin percentage net sales declined % the fourth quarter , primarily due aggressive pricing actions and product mix issues related component availability and delays new PowerPC processor-based product production. anticipated that gross margins will continue remain under significant pressure and are likely remain comparable the level reported for the fourth quarter due variety factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, particularly Japan, and compressed product life cycles. Research and Development Research and development expenditures increased amount during when compared with , primarily due higher project- and headcount- related spending, the Company continues invest the development new products and technologies. The decrease research and development expenditures during compared with reflected the results the Company\' restructuring actions aimed reducing costs, including product development expenditures. Research and development expenditures percentage net sales have continued decrease since result revenue growth during and , coupled with the Company\' continuing efforts focus its research and development project spending efficient manner. The Company believes that continued focused investment research and development critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace, and directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased amount, but decreased percentage net sales, compared with . This increase expense was primarily result increased advertising and channel marketing program spending the Company continued its efforts expand its market share. Although the Company has increased its selling and marketing expenses effort expand its market share, there can assurance that such increase spending will result corresponding increase market share. The decrease percentage net sales since primarily result revenue growth during and , combined with the Company\' ongoing efforts manage total operating expense growth. , selling, general and administrative expenses decreased amount and percentage net sales compared with , primarily because lower employee-related and facilities costs resulting from the restructuring actions taken the third quarter . Revenue growth also contributed the decrease selling, general and administrative expenses percentage net sales. The Company will continue face the challenge managing growth selling, general and administrative expenses relative gross margin levels, particularly light the Company\' expectation continued pressure gross margins and continued competitive pressures worldwide. Restructuring Costs For information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million expense from $ million expense . This $ million favorable change comprised $ million interest and other income attributable higher average cash balances, higher interest rates, and interest rate hedging gains, offset part $ million unfavorable variance related realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging losses and foreign exchange hedging costs. Market volatility and higher foreign currency balances account for the increased hedging cost. , interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million expense from $ million income , resulting $ million unfavorable change. Higher interest rates and larger average borrowing balances used fund working capital needs served significantly increase interest expense, and accounted for $ million the $ million change during . Other factors contributing this variance included interest income, which was higher than primarily due $ million interest payment received nonrecurring income tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service , and interest income from the Company\' interest rate risk management program, which contributed $ million , and reduced interest income $ million . For more information regarding the Company\' strategy and accounting for financial and other derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for Income Taxes Change Change Provision for income taxes $ % $ % $ Effective tax rate % % % The Company\' effective tax rate decreased % compared with rate % and . For additional information regarding income taxes, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. Product Introductions and Transitions Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products and product enhancements. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, and the manufacturing products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. , the Company introduced Power Macintosh, new line Macintosh computers based new PowerPC family RISC microprocessors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition may adversely affected unable successfully complete the transition its lines personal computers and servers from the Motorola series microprocessors the PowerPC microprocessor. The success this ongoing transition will depend the Company\' ability continue sell products based the Motorola series microprocessors while continuing gain market acceptance the new PowerPC processor-based products, successfully manage inventory levels both product lines simultaneously, and continue coordinate the timely development and distribution independent software vendors new "native" software applications specifically designed for the PowerPC processor-based products. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and result deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. The preceding may also offset other factors, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply product previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply product. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European- language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the United States, even though localized versions the Company\' products may available. Competition The personal computer industry highly competitive and continues characterized consolidations the hardware and software industries, aggressive pricing practices, and downward pressure gross margins. For example, Japan, other companies have begun initiate extreme competitive actions order gain market share, and result, the Company has implemented incremental pricing and promotional activities. The Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected should the Company unable effectively manage the impact industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability offer customers competitive technologies while effectively managing the impact inventory levels and the potential for customer confusion created product proliferation. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. November , , the Company reached agreement with IBM and Motorola, Inc. new hardware reference platform for the PowerPC microprocessor that intended deliver much wider range operating system and application choices for computer customers. result this agreement, the Company moving forward with its efforts make the Macintosh operating system available the common platform. line with its efforts, November , , the Company, IBM, and Motorola, Inc. announced the availability the "PowerPC Platform," which set specifications that defines "unified" personal computer architecture and combines the Power Macintosh platform and the environment. Accordingly, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability continue implement this agreement and certain other collaboration agreements, and manage the associated competitive risk. The Company currently the primary maker hardware that uses the Macintosh operating system, and has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the -DOS (registered trademark) and Microsoft Windows (trademark) operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability increase market share its personal computer business. part its efforts increase overall market share, the Company announced the licensing the Macintosh operating system other personal computer vendors January , and several vendors currently sell product that utilize the Macintosh operating system. The success the Company\' efforts increase its overall market share through licensing the Macintosh operating system will depend part the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with competing with companies producing Macintosh -based computer systems. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that licensing the Macintosh operating system will have its product pricing and unit sales future operating results and financial condition. The Company believes that licensing the operating system will result broader installed base which software vendors can develop and provide technical innovations for the Macintosh platform. However, there can assurance that the installed base will broadened the licensing the operating system that licensing will result increase the number application software titles the rate which vendors will bring market application software based the Macintosh operating system. The Company\' principal competitor producing operating system software, Microsoft Corporation, large, well-financed corporation which has dominant position various segments the personal computer software industry. August , Microsoft Corporation released Windows , another its operating system offerings. result the introduction Windows , the Company has taken and will continue take steps address the additional challenges and competitive pressures its efforts developing and marketing the Company\' products. Accordingly, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected should the Company unable effectively manage the competitive pressure and other challenges presented the introduction Windows . Certain the Company\' personal computer products are capable running application software designed for the -DOS Windows operating systems ("Cross-Platform Products"), through software emulation Intel Corporation microprocessor chips use software specifically designed for the Company\' products, either those based the Motorola series microprocessors those based the PowerPC microprocessor. The Company has also introduced products that include both the RISC- based PowerPC microprocessor and the DX2 microprocessor, which enable users switch between the Macintosh and DOS Windows computing environments. The Company currently supplies customers who purchase Cross-Platform Products capable running the -DOS Windows operating system with operating system software under licensing agreement with Microsoft. This license agreement expires December , (the "Old License Agreement"). The Company has attempted license Windows software from Microsoft but has been unable because the Company\' unwillingness consent Microsoft\' demand under Microsoft\' proposed license agreement (the "New License Agreement") that the Company agree not sue Microsoft Microsoft infringes any the Company\' patents. Microsoft has also informed the Company that will not renew the Old License Agreement unless the Company accepts the New License Agreement. Accordingly, unless appropriate licensing agreement reached, upon the expiration the Old License Agreement, the Company will unable supply customers with any Microsoft\' operating systems Cross- Platform Products. Although customers could obtain copies such software from other sources, the Company unable predict the effect such situation the demand for Cross-Platform Products. Although Cross-Platform Products represented only small portion the Company\' unit sales during , the Company unable predict the effect such situation the Company\' future operating results. Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed -DOS Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part the third- party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. This analysis based factors such the relative market share the Company\' products, the anticipated potential revenue that may earned, and the costs developing such software products. Microsoft Corporation important developer application software for the Company\' products. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Company\' products may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests operating system vendor. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers the PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain the Company\' products, continue supply the Company microprocessors that produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, the developer and producer the microprocessors used most personal computers using the -DOS and Windows operating systems. IBM produces personal computers based the Intel microprocessors well the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Macintosh operating system. Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with improved versions microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability successfully expand and capitalize its investments other markets, such the markets for Internet services and personal digital assistant (PDA) products. Global Market Risks large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operations and financial results could significantly affected international factors, such changes foreign currency exchange rates weak economic conditions the foreign markets which the Company distributes its products. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). mitigate the short-term impact fluctuating currency exchange rates the Company\' non- . dollar-based sales, product procurement, and operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non- . dollar- based exposures. Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts hedge firmly committed transactions. Currently, hedges firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. Hedges probable, but not firmly committed transactions currently not extend beyond one year. reduce the costs associated with these ongoing foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for hedges, including all transactions intended reduce the costs associated with the Company\' foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Refer the Financial Instruments footnote pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. While the Company exposed with respect fluctuations the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well interest paid its short-term borrowings and long-term debt. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap and option transactions. Certain these swaps are intended better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the fixed- rate interest expense its long-term debt. The Company also enters into interest rate swap and option transactions order diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. These instruments may extend the Company\' cash investment horizon maximum effective duration three years. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap and option positions stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate-related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures, and such, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company generally does not engage leveraged hedging. Inventory and Supply The Company\' ability satisfy demand for its products may limited the availability key components. The Company believes that the availability from suppliers the personal computer industry microprocessors and ASICs presents the most significant potential for constraining the Company\' ability produce products. Specific microprocessors manufactured Motorola, Inc. and IBM are currently available only from single sources, while some advanced microprocessors are currently the early stages ramp- for production and thus have limited availability. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for other semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced increased demand for such products, due either increased consumer demand increased use semiconductors their products (such the cellular phone and automotive industries). Finally, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead custom components. Such product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition, including loss market share. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also adversely affected the Company\' ability manage inventory levels and lead times required obtain components order more responsive short-term shifts customer demand patterns. addition, anticipated unit sales growth for new and current product offerings not realized, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. Marketing and Distribution number uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company\' primary means distribution through third-party computer resellers. However, the Company continuing its expansion into various consumer channels, such mass-merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets, and computer superstores. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens resellers within consumer channels decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Other Factors The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. The Company currently the process replacing its current transaction systems (which include order management, distribution, manufacturing, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected unable implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. April , the Company announced companywide reorganization designed more closely align the Company\' organizational structure with the Company\' business strategy placing increased focus customer needs and expanding its presence the home, education, and business markets. November , the Company announced further companywide reorganization accelerate the implementation its market segmentation strategy. The Company\' reorganization will result the consolidation its sales, marketing, and customer solutions organization into three geographic business units, namely, the Americas, Europe, and Japan and Asia. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected its ability effectively manage the transition these new organizational structures. Although uncertain this time, the Company may incur future restructuring charges result these reorganizations. Historically, the Company has experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters due holiday demand for and calendar year- end buying some its products. the date this Annual Report, published reports relating the . economy indicated potentially unfavorable year-end buying season. Any general economic slowdown could adversely affect demand for the Company\' products, which could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net short-term borrowings, decreased $ million September , , from $ million September , . Less cash was generated operations compared with , primarily result growth inventory levels and increase accounts receivable. Inventory levels grew during order support anticipated demand the first quarter for the Company\' new products. Accounts receivable also increased, reflecting the higher sales levels achieved during , primarily toward the end the fourth quarter. Cash used for operations was partially offset cash generated from higher sales and accounts payable levels. The increased sales levels were driven aggressive pricing and promotional actions coupled with strong demand for the Company\' PowerPC processor-based products. Accounts payable increased result the growth inventory and production levels and longer payment terms negotiated with vendors. More cash was generated operations compared with , primarily due significant decrease inventory levels, well increased sales levels. The significant decrease inventory levels during resulted from improved inventory management, higher sales levels attributable various pricing and promotional actions, and strong sales new product inventory which had been built preparation for the introduction Power Macintosh. Profit levels improved operating expenses decreased due the Company\' implementation restructuring actions initiated the third quarter . Cash generated operations was partially offset cash used for restructuring and increase accounts receivable. The increase accounts receivable reflected increase sales levels achieved during . The balance accrued restructuring costs decreased the restructuring actions initiated the third quarter continued implemented. addition, the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. Excluding short-term investments, net cash used for investments increased compared with and levels. Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and was primarily made increases manufacturing machinery and equipment. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures will remain relatively consistent with expenditure levels. The Company leases the majority its facilities and certain its equipment under noncancelable operating leases. , rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million. The Company\' future lease commitments are discussed page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Short-term borrowings September , , were approximately $ million higher than September , . These borrowings were primarily made fund expected working capital growth certain markets worldwide. general, the Company\' short-term borrowings reflect borrowings made under its commercial paper program and short-term loans from certain commercial banks. particular, Apple Japan, Inc. and Apple Computer (Netherlands), subsidiaries the Company, held short- term borrowings from several banks, totaling approximately $ million and $ million, respectively, September , . The Company\' balance long-term debt remained relatively constant during . , $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes were issued under omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration was for the registration debt and other securities for aggregate offering amount $ million. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . The % fixed rate was subsequently effectively converted floating rate through ten-year interest rate swaps based the three-month . dollar London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. anticipated that any margin the Company may required post the future would not have material adverse effect the Company\' liquidity position. The Company expects that will continue incur short- and long-term borrowings from time time finance . working capital needs and capital expenditures, because substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries, generally . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated. Refer the Income Taxes footnote pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company believes that its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations and short- and long-term borrowing capabilities, will sufficient meet its operating cash requirements short- and long-term basis. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Income for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Financial Statement Schedules: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Valuation and qualifying accounts - All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements income, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed the Index Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars millions) September , , and September , Assets: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ $ , Short-term investments Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ ($ ) , , Inventories: Purchased parts Work process Finished goods , , Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment Other assets $ , $ , Liabilities and Shareholders\' Equity: Current liabilities: Short-term borrowings $ $ Accounts payable , Accrued compensation and employee benefits Accrued marketing and distribution Other current liabilities Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt Deferred tax liabilities Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares ) Retained earnings , , Other ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Income (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost sales , , , Research and development Selling, general and administrative , , , Restructuring costs ( ) ( ) , , , Operating income Interest and other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share ( thousands) , , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity (Dollars millions, except per share amounts) Total Common Stock Share- Shares Retained holders\' ( Thousands) Amount Earnings Other Equity Balance September , , $ $ , $ -- $ , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( ) ( ) -- ( ) Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Net income -- -- -- Balance September , , , ( ) , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Balance September , , , ( ) , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , -- -- Cash dividends $ per common share -- -- ( ) -- ( ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- Change unrealized gains (losses) available-for- sale securities -- -- -- Net income -- -- -- Other -- -- -- Balance September , , $ $ , $ $ , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows (Dollars millions) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period $ , $ $ Operations: Net income Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated (used for) operations: Depreciation and amortization Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Accrued restructuring costs ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) ( ) Deferred tax liabilities Cash generated (used for) operations ( ) ( ) Investments: Purchase short-term investments ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale short-term investments , , Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) investment activities ( ) ( ) Financing: Increase (decrease) short-term borrowings ( ) Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings ( ) ( ) Increases common stock, net related tax benefits Repurchase common stock -- -- ( ) Cash dividends ( ) ( ) ( ) Other -- -- ( ) Cash generated (used for ) financing activities ( ) Total cash generated (used) ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the period $ $ , $ Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for: Interest $ $ $ Income taxes, net $ $ $ Schedule non-cash transactions: Tax benefit from stock options $ $ $ See accompanying notes. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Summary Significant Accounting Policies Basis Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. Advertising Costs Advertising costs, except for costs associated with direct-response advertising, are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. The costs direct-response advertising are capitalized and amortized over the period during which future benefits are expected received. Foreign Currency Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation are accumulated separate component shareholders\' equity until the foreign entity sold liquidated. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included the consolidated statement income. Financial Instruments Investments All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. There are investments with maturities greater than twelve months. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings that are intended indefinitely invested. Effective October , , the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities." accordance with FAS , prior period financial statements have not been restated reflect the change accounting principle. The cumulative effect the change was not material shareholders\' equity October , . Under FAS , debt securities that company has both the positive intent and ability hold maturity are carried amortized cost. Debt securities that company does not have the positive intent and ability hold maturity and all marketable equity securities are classified either available-for-sale trading and are carried fair value. Generally, unrealized holding gains and losses securities classified available- for-sale are reported component shareholders\' equity. Unrealized holding gains and losses securities classified trading are included earnings. The Company\' cash equivalents consist primarily . Government securities, Euro-dollar deposits, and commercial paper with maturities three months less the date purchase. Short-term investments consist principally Euro-dollar deposits and commercial paper with maturities between three and twelve months. The Company\' marketable equity securities consist securities issued . corporations and are included "Other assets" the accompanying balance sheet. September , , the Company\' cash equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable equity securities are classified and accounted for available-for-sale and are generally held until maturity. Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off- balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for other than risk management purposes. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are included the carrying amounts those assets liabilities and are ultimately recognized income part those carrying amounts. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firm commitments anticipated transactions are also deferred and are recognized income adjustments carrying amounts when the hedged transaction occurs. Realized and unrealized gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange contracts that not qualify accounting hedges are recognized quarterly component interest and other income (expense), net. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Interest Rate Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps and options, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. These instruments are also used diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. Foreign Currency Instruments The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal . dollar value terms their high correlation with the . dollar. Probable, but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase foreign exchange option contracts used hedge both firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. addition, the Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. The duration foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions for probable, but not firmly committed transactions, currently does not exceed one year. For further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment its investments and other financial and derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes The income tax provisions for and have been determined accordance with statement Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Income Taxes," whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. The Company adopted FAS effective the first day fiscal prospective basis, and the financial statements years ended prior have not been restated. The cumulative effect the change was not material. Prior , the Company accounted for income taxes under the provisions APB Opinion . , which recognized deferred taxes for the effect timing differences between pretax accounting income and taxable income. Under the deferred method APB Opinion . , deferred taxes were not adjusted for subsequent changes tax rates. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries. intended that these earnings will indefinitely invested operations outside the United States. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely invested earnings, the Company provides for federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Earnings per Share Earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and dilutive common equivalent shares attributable stock options outstanding during the period. Loss per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding during the period. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight- line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets. Stock-Based Compensation The Company has not elected early adoption Financial Accounting Standard . ("FAS "), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." FAS becomes effective beginning with the Company\' first quarter fiscal year , and will not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Upon adoption FAS , the Company will continue measure compensation expense for its stock- based employee compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed APB Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees" and will provide pro forma disclosures net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method prescribed FAS had been applied measuring compensation expense. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements Cash Flows and the Industry Segment and Geographic Information and Income Taxes footnotes have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Financial Instruments Investments The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities September , : ( millions) Gross Gross Estimated Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost Gains Losses Value . Treasury securities and obligations . government agencies $ $ -- $ -- $ . corporate debt securities -- -- Foreign government securities ( ) -- Total included cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ -- $ . corporate debt securities $ $ -- $ -- $ Foreign government securities -- -- Total included short-term investments $ $ -- $ -- $ Equity securities $ $ $ -- $ Total included other assets $ $ $ -- $ Total $ , $ $ -- $ , ( ) The $ million represents gross unrealized gains interest rate hedging transactions. Gross unrealized holding gains losses available-for-sale securities are recorded component shareholders\' equity, and include any unrealized gains and losses interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the underlying securities. the $ million gross unrealized gains related equity securities, approximately $ million relates securities that are restricted from sale until February . The gross realized gains recorded earnings sales available-for- sale securities were $ million . There were gross realized losses recorded earnings sales available-for-sale securities . The cost securities sold based the specific identification method. Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments The table page shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , , and September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. ( millions) ----------------------- ----------------------- Notional Fair Credit Notional Fair Credit Principal Value Risk Principal Value Risk Amount Amount Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) -- Interest rate collars $ --( ) --( ) -- -- -- Sold options $ --( ) -- -- -- -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot / Forward contracts $ , $ $ $ , $ ( ) $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options -- -- -- $ $ ( ) -- Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ --( ) -- -- -- -- Sold options $ $ ( ) -- $ --( ) -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot Forward contracts -- -- -- $ --( ) --( ) Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ , $ ( ) -- $ , $ ( ) -- ( ) Fair value less than $ million. The interest rate swaps shown above generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. Maturity dates for interest rate swaps currently range from one ten years. September , , and September , , interest rate swaps classified receive-fixed swaps had weighted average receive rates % and %, respectively. Weighted average pay rates these swaps were % and % September , , and September , , respectively. Interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. Interest rate collars limit the Company\' exposure fluctuations short-term interest rates locking range interest rates. interest rate collar -cost structure that consists purchased option and sold option. The Company receives payment when the three-month LIBOR falls below predetermined levels, and makes payment when the three- month LIBOR rises above predetermined levels. The entire structure generally qualifies accounting hedge. All interest rate option contracts outstanding September , , expire within three years. Interest rate contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. Unrealized gains and losses interest rate contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized losses such agreements totaled approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively, primarily reflecting the net present value unrealized losses the ten-year swap contracts, which effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten-year debt floating- rate debt. The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates, and the adjustment recognized income that time. Unrealized gains and losses foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Deferred gains and losses such agreements September , , and September , , were immaterial. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. Purchased foreign exchange option contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment are reported the balance sheet the premium cost, which amortized over the life the option. Unrealized gains and losses these option contracts are deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction and recognized component the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such agreements were immaterial September , , and September , . September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts ranged from one twelve months. Purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts that not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are carried fair value and, such, are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Gains and losses associated with these financial instruments are recorded currently income. September , , maturity dates for these sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Fair Values Other Financial Instruments The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' other financial instruments are follows: ( millions) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Amount Value Amount Value Cash and cash equivalents $ $ $ , $ , Short-term investments $ $ $ $ Short-term borrowings $ $ $ $ Long-term debt: Ten-year unsecured notes $ $ $ $ Other $ $ $ $ Short-term investments are carried cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value. The carrying amount short-term borrowings approximates their fair value due their short-term maturities. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market value September , . Concentrations Credit Risk The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' long-term debt. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. Advertising Costs There were direct-response advertising costs reported assets September , , and September , . Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Borrowings Short-Term Borrowings ( millions) Commercial paper $ -- $ Notes payable banks $ $ The weighted average interest rates for Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , and September , , were approximately % and %, respectively. The weighted average interest rate for . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , , was approximately %. The Company had . dollar-denominated notes payable banks September , . The weighted average interest rate for commercial paper borrowings September , , was approximately %. Interest expense short-term borrowings was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Long-Term Debt February , , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . Interest expense long- term debt for the years ended September , , and September , , was $ million and $ million, respectively. For information regarding the Company\' estimated fair value short- term and long-term debt, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Operations the third quarter , the Company initiated plan restructure its operations worldwide order address the competitive conditions the personal computer industry, including the increased market demand for lower-priced products. connection with this plan, the Company recorded $ million charge operating expenses ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). The restructuring costs included $ million estimated employee-related expenses and $ million estimated facilities, equipment, and other expenses associated with the consolidation operations and the relocation and termination certain operations and employees. The restructuring plan originally contemplated the termination relocation approximately , employees worldwide and reduction worldwide office space, which primarily consisted approximately million square feet office space the San Francisco Bay Area, within one year from the date the restructuring was initiated. the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the total costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. addition, some actions were completed lower cost than originally estimated. The most significant element the adjustment was associated with $ million costs accrued terminate move number employees from the San Francisco Bay Area lower-cost location. This element the Company\' restructuring plan was expected result the termination relocation approximately , employees and the closure certain leased facilities, cost $ million and $ million, respectively. However, the expected benefits this move were reduced since the plan\' inception because changes the cost differential between the Company\' current and alternative locations. For example, the Company favorably renegotiated the lease terms certain facilities its current locations, the salary growth rate differentials between the Bay Area and alternative locations were reduced, and changes the California income tax laws made more attractive for companies business California. The Company canceled this action the third quarter , when management decided that the extended estimated pay-back period longer justified the initial cash investment and the unquantifiable cost business disruption that such move would precipitate. the end fiscal year , approximately , employees had been terminated cost approximately $ million termination benefits, and approximately had been relocated. The Company had reduced its use office space the Bay Area approximately , square feet. During , the Company further lowered its estimates the total remaining costs associated with its restructuring plan initiated the third quarter and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected favorable cancelation settlements certain & project commitments and facility leases and the completion other actions lower costs than originally estimated. September , , the Company had $ million accrued restructuring costs for actions that are currently under way, the majority which are expected completed during . Approximately $ million this accrual represents cash charges expected incurred primarily for estimated facilities and other expenses. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, consists the following: ( millions) Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss) ( ) Net premiums and discounts earned (paid) foreign exchange instruments ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) -- ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Income Taxes ( millions) The provision for income taxes consists the following: FAS Method APB Method Federal: Current $ $ $ Deferred ( ) ( ) State: Current Deferred Foreign: Current Deferred Provision for income taxes $ $ $ The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. The tax benefit credited directly common stock result compensation expense attributable employee stock option and purchase plans recognized differently for financial reporting and tax purposes was $ million . Under FAS , deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. September , , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were: ( millions) September , September , Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Total deferred tax assets Less: Valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Other Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax liability $ $ The net change the total valuation allowance was increase $ million and $ million and , respectively. Under APB Opinion . , deferred income taxes result from timing differences between years the recognition certain revenue and expense items for financial and tax reporting purposes. The sources timing differences and the related tax effects for are follows: ( millions) Income foreign subsidiaries not taxable current year $ Warranty, bad debt, and other expenses ( ) Depreciation ( ) Inventory valuation ( ) State income taxes Other individually immaterial items Total deferred taxes $ ( ) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , % , and % ) income before income taxes, follows: ( millions) FAS Method APB Method Computed expected tax $ $ $ State taxes, net federal benefit Research and development tax credit ( ) ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) ( ) Valuation allowance -- Other individually immaterial items Provision for income taxes $ $ $ Effective tax rate % % % The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies for the years through , and most the issues dispute for these years have been resolved. June , , the IRS issued notice deficiency proposing increases the amount the Company\' federal income taxes for the years through . The Company has filed petition with the United States Tax Court contest these alleged tax deficiencies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. Common Stock Shareholder Rights Plan May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( "Right") for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . Stock Option Plans The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the " Plan") and Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the " Plan"). The Stock Option Plan terminated October . Options granted before that date remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period three years, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. The Plan permits the granting nonstatutory options certain officers the Company purchase Apple common stock prices not less than % the fair market value the date grant. Options under the Plan are generally not exercisable for months after the date grant, and then become exercisable varying rates over the subsequent seven years, based continued service the Company. July , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million shares, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for January . Concurrently, the Board Directors also resolved terminate the Plan and transfer all unused shares remaining under the Plan the Plan, subject shareholder approval the aforementioned amendment the Plan. Summarized information regarding the Company\' stock option plans September , , follows: ( thousands, except per share amounts) Number Shares Price per Share Outstanding September , , $ - $ Granted , Exercised ( , ) $ - $ Expired canceled ( , ) Outstanding September , , $ - $ Exercisable , Reserved for issuance , Available for future grant , Restricted Stock Plan April , , the Company\' Board Directors approved Restricted Stock Plan for officers the Company (the "RSP"), which became effective July , . The RSP was subsequently ratified the shareholders January , . The RSP designed provide incentive for officers continue own shares the Company\' common stock acquired upon exercise options under any the Company\' Stock Option Plans, thus more closely aligning officers\' financial interests with those the shareholders. The RSP provides that officers who exercise stock options and continue hold the exercised shares for least three years will receive three awards shares restricted stock. Each such award for one-third the number shares held for the requisite retention period. Each restricted stock award granted pursuant the plan becomes fully vested three years after the grant date, provided that the officer maintains continuous employment with the Company and that other vesting requirements are met. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan") under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning end the offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. September , , approximately , shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. June , the Board Directors adopted amendment the Purchase Plan increase the number shares reserved for issuance million shares, subject shareholder approval the Company\' Annual Meeting Shareholders scheduled for January . Stock Repurchase Programs November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. shares were repurchased under this authorization ; approximately million shares were repurchased under this authorization . September , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. During , the Company repurchased the remaining shares under this authorization, which approximated million shares. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective October , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior October , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Preferred Stock Five million shares preferred stock have been authorized for issuance one more series. The Board Directors authorized fix the number and designation any such series and determine the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions granted imposed any such series. Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under these noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( millions) $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ Litigation Apple . Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company March , the Company filed suit the . District Court for the Northern District California (the "Court") against Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") and Hewlett-Packard Company (" ") alleging that their Microsoft Windows and NewWave computer programs infringe the Company\' audiovisual copyrights protecting the Macintosh user interface. August , , the district court entered final judgment for Microsoft and , dismissing the Company\' action. September , , the Court denied defendants\' motions for award full defense costs and attorneys\' fees under . Section , but allowed defendants renew their motions should the Supreme Court alter the standard for the award attorneys\' fees copyright cases the case Fogerty . Fantasy, Inc., . . ( ). ------------------------ September , , the Company appealed the case the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. September , , the Court Appeals issued its decision affirming the district court judgment the merits but remanding the case the issue attorneys\' fees light the Fogerty decision. The Company filed petition for writ ------- ----------- certiorari the Supreme Court the United States December , - ---------- . The Company\' petition for writ certiorari was denied the Supreme ------------------ Court the United States February , . Accordingly, the decision the appellate court affirming the dismissal the Company\' copyright infringement case against Microsoft and now final. The requests Microsoft and for attorneys\' fees have been resolved settlement agreements. Accordingly, the matter has been entirely resolved. Industry Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. Geographic financial information follows: ( millions) Net sales unaffiliated customers: North America $ , $ , $ , Europe , , , Japan , , Pacific Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): North America $ $ $ Europe Japan -- -- Pacific , , , Total transfers $ , $ , $ , Operating income (loss): North America $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Europe Japan Pacific Eliminations ( ) Corporate income (expense), net ( ) ( ) Income before income taxes $ $ $ Identifiable assets: North America $ , $ , $ , Europe Japan Pacific Eliminations ( ) ( ) ( ) Corporate assets , Total assets $ , $ , $ , "Europe" includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa. "Pacific" includes Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Latin America, and South America. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year\' presentation. Net sales unaffiliated customers based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charge recorded and the related adjustments recorded and are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, joint venture investments, and short-term investments. Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ - $ - $ - $ - $ $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ - $ - $ - $ - $ $ $ $ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined quarterly the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net income for the first quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Net income for the third quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Net income for the third quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . Item . Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - -Change Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedules The financial statement schedules the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through November , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Note due . ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant ** Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. 91K** Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , - ** Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ** Separation Agreement dated April , , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ** Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ** Retention Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. NOTES 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedules See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - - , - , - , - , - , and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, the Executive Restricted Stock Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedules Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER MICHAEL . SPINDLER President and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael . Spindler and Edward . Stead, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / Michael . Spindler / / Jeanne Seeley MICHAEL . SPINDLER JEANNE SEELEY President and Vice President, Finance, and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Controller (Principal Executive Officer), and (Principal Financial Officer) Director December , December , / / Armas . Markkula, / / Delano . Lewis ARMAS . MARKKULA, . DELANO . LEWIS Chairman the Board Director and Director December , December , / / Peter . Crisp / / Bernard Goldstein PETER . CRISP BERNARD GOLDSTEIN Director Director December , December , / / Jurgen Hintz / / Katherine Hudson . JURGEN HINTZ KATHERINE HUDSON Director Director December , December , / / Gilbert . Amelio . GILBERT . AMELIO Director December , Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ( millions) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Deductions Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses ( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ ____________________________________________ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Note due . ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ( ) Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page - ( ) Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ( ) Separation Agreement dated April , , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ( ) Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - -Change Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and "Report the Compensation Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedules The financial statement schedules the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through November , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Note due . ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) Exhibit Number Notes* Description - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant ** Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. 91K** Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , - ** Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ** Separation Agreement dated April , , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ** Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ** Retention Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. * Footnotes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. NOTES 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedules See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - - , - , - , - , - , and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, the Executive Restricted Stock Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedules Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER MICHAEL . SPINDLER President and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael . Spindler and Edward . Stead, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / Michael . Spindler / / Jeanne Seeley MICHAEL . SPINDLER JEANNE SEELEY President and Vice President, Finance, and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Controller (Principal Executive Officer), and (Principal Financial Officer) Director December , December , / / Armas . Markkula, / / Delano . Lewis ARMAS . MARKKULA, . DELANO . LEWIS Chairman the Board Director and Director December , December , / / Peter . Crisp / / Bernard Goldstein PETER . CRISP BERNARD GOLDSTEIN Director Director December , December , / / Jurgen Hintz / / Katherine Hudson . JURGEN HINTZ KATHERINE HUDSON Director Director December , December , / / Gilbert . Amelio . GILBERT . AMELIO Director December , Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ( millions) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Deductions Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses ( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , $ $ $ $ ____________________________________________ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Note due . ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ( ) Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page - ( ) Supplement the Executive Severance Plan effective June , . ( ) Separation Agreement dated April , , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ( ) Form Senior Executive Retention Agreement dated June , . ( ) Retention Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}