{'item 1. ': 'Business Overview Our mission give people the power share and make the world more open and connected. Our top priority build useful and engaging products that enable people connect and share through mobile devices, personal computers, and other surfaces. also help people discover and learn about what going the world around them, enable people share their opinions, ideas, photos and videos, and other activities with audiences ranging from their closest friends the public large, and stay connected everywhere accessing our products, including: • Facebook. Facebook enables people connect, share, discover, and communicate with each other mobile devices and personal computers. There are number different ways engage with people Facebook, the most important which News Feed which displays algorithmically-ranked series stories and advertisements individualized for each person. • Instagram. Instagram enables people take photos videos, customize them with filter effects, and share them with friends and followers photo feed send them directly friends. • Messenger. Messenger allows for rich and expressive way communicate with people and businesses alike across variety platforms and devices, which makes easy reach almost everyone seamlessly and securely. • WhatsApp. WhatsApp Messenger fast, simple and reliable messaging application that used people around the world and available variety mobile platforms. • Oculus. Our Oculus virtual reality technology and content platform power products that allow people enter completely immersive and interactive environment play games, consume content, and connect with others. generate substantially all our revenue from selling advertising placements marketers. Our ads let marketers reach people based variety factors including age, gender, location, interests, and behaviors. Marketers purchase ads that can appear multiple places including Facebook, Instagram, and third-party applications and websites. are also investing number longer-term initiatives, such connectivity efforts and artificial intelligence research, develop technologies that believe will help better serve our communities and pursue our mission make the world more open and connected. Competition Our business characterized innovation, rapid change, and disruptive technologies. compete with companies that sell advertising, well with companies that provide social and communication products and services that are designed engage users and capture time spent mobile devices and online. face significant competition every aspect our business, including from companies that facilitate communications and the sharing content and information, companies that enable marketers display advertising, and companies that provide development platforms for application developers. compete attract, engage, and retain people who use our products, attract and retain marketers, and attract and retain developers build compelling mobile and web applications that integrate with our products. also compete with the following: • Companies that offer products across broad platforms that replicate key capabilities provide. For example, Google has integrated social functionality into number its products, including search, video and Android. • Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that provide social other communications functionality, such messaging, photo- and video-sharing, and micro-blogging. • Companies that provide regional social networks that have strong positions particular countries. • Traditional, online, and mobile businesses that provide media for marketers reach their audiences and develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. • Companies that develop and deliver virtual reality products and services. introduce acquire new products, our existing products evolve, other companies introduce new products and services, may become subject additional competition. Technology Our product development philosophy centered continuous innovation creating and improving products that are social design, which means that our products are designed place people and their social interactions the core the product experience. our user base grows, and the level engagement from the people who use our products continues increase, including with video, our computing needs continue expand. make significant investments technology both improve our existing products and services and develop new ones, well for our marketers and developers. Our research and development expenses were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and , respectively. For information about our research and development expenses, see Part , Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Results Operations—Research and development" this Annual Report Form - . Sales and Operations The majority our marketers use our self-service platform launch and manage their advertising campaigns. also have global sales force that focused attracting and retaining advertisers and providing support them throughout the stages the marketing cycle from pre-purchase decision-making real-time optimizations post-campaign analytics. work directly with these advertisers, through traditional advertising agencies, and with ecosystem specialized agencies and partners. currently operate five support offices and more than sales offices around the globe. also invest and rely self-service tools provide direct customer support our users and partners. own and lease data centers throughout the United States and various locations internationally. Marketing date, our communities have grown organically with people inviting their friends connect with them, supported internal efforts stimulate awareness and interest. addition, have invested and will continue invest marketing our products and services build our brand, grow our user base, and increase engagement around the world. leverage the utility our products and our social distribution channels our most effective marketing tools. Intellectual Property establish and protect our proprietary rights, rely combination patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. addition, further protect our proprietary rights, from time time have purchased patents and patent applications from third parties. not believe that our proprietary technology dependent any single patent copyright groups related patents copyrights. believe the duration our patents adequate relative the expected lives our products. Government Regulation are subject number . federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business the Internet. Many these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested courts, and could interpreted ways that could harm our business. These may involve user privacy, data protection, and personal information, rights publicity, content, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, distribution, data security, data retention and deletion, personal information, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection minors, consumer protection, telecommunications, product liability, taxation, economic other trade prohibitions sanctions, securities law compliance, and online payment services. particular, are subject federal, state, and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection people\' data. Foreign data protection, privacy, competition, and other laws and regulations can more restrictive than those the United States. . federal and state and foreign laws and regulations, which some cases can enforced private parties addition government entities, are constantly evolving and can subject significant change. result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly the new and rapidly-evolving industry which operate, and may interpreted and applied inconsistently from country country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. Proposed new legislation and regulations could also significantly affect our business. There currently are number proposals pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies, including data protection regulation, known the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been finalized and due come into force around May . The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies that receive process personal data residents the European Union that are different than those currently place the European Union, and that will include significant penalties for non- compliance. Similarly, there are number legislative proposals the United States, both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations areas affecting our business, such liability for copyright infringement third parties. addition, some countries are considering have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements requiring local storage and processing data similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity delivering our services. are currently, and may the future, subject regulatory orders consent decrees. Violation existing future regulatory orders consent decrees could subject substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results operations. Various laws and regulations the United States and abroad, such the . Bank Secrecy Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the Credit CARD Act, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements companies that are financial institutions that provide financial products and services. Under these laws and regulations, financial institutions are broadly defined include money services businesses such money transmitters, check cashers, and sellers issuers stored value prepaid access products. Requirements imposed financial institutions under these laws include customer identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures, and transaction reporting. increase flexibility how our online payments infrastructure (Payments) may evolve and mitigate regulatory uncertainty, have received certain money transmitter licenses the United States and Electronic Money ( -Money) license that allows conduct certain regulated payment activities the participating member countries the European Economic Area, which will generally require demonstrate compliance with many domestic and foreign laws relating money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, charitable fundraising, counter-terrorist financing, gambling, banking and lending, financial privacy and data security, and import and export restrictions. Employees December , , had , employees. Corporate Information were incorporated Delaware July . completed our initial public offering May and our Class common stock listed The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol " ." Our principal executive offices are located Willow Road, Menlo Park, California , and our telephone number ( ) - . Facebook, the Facebook logo, , the Like button, Instagram, Oculus, WhatsApp, and our other registered common law trademarks, service marks, trade names appearing this Annual Report Form - are the property Facebook, Inc. its affiliates. Other trademarks, service marks, trade names appearing this Annual Report Form - are the property their respective owners. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue set forth Notes and our Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . Available Information Our website address www facebook com. Our Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act), are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). are subject the informational requirements the Exchange Act and file furnish reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed with the SEC are available free charge our website investor com when such reports are available the SEC\' website. use our investor com and newsroom com websites well Mark Zuckerberg\' Facebook Page (https://www facebook com zuck) means disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation . The public may read and copy any materials filed Facebook with the SEC the SEC\' Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov. The contents the websites referred above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Certain factors may have material adverse effect our business, financial condition, and results operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, addition other information contained this Annual Report Form - , including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are unaware , that currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. any the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results operations, and future prospects could materially and adversely affected. that event, the trading price our Class common stock could decline, and you could lose part all your investment. Risks Related Our Business and Industry fail retain existing users add new users, our users decrease their level engagement with our products, our revenue, financial results, and business may significantly harmed. The size our user base and our users\' level engagement are critical our success. Our financial performance has been and will continue significantly determined our success adding, retaining, and engaging active users our products, particularly for Facebook and Instagram. anticipate that our active user growth rate will continue decline over time the size our active user base increases, and achieve higher market penetration rates. people not perceive our products useful, reliable, and trustworthy, may not able attract retain users otherwise maintain increase the frequency and duration their engagement. number other social networking companies that achieved early popularity have since seen their active user bases levels engagement decline, some cases precipitously. There guarantee that will not experience similar erosion our active user base engagement levels. Our user engagement patterns have changed over time, and user engagement can difficult measure, particularly introduce new and different products and services. Any number factors could potentially negatively affect user retention, growth, and engagement, including : • users increasingly engage with other competitive products services; • fail introduce new products services that users find engaging introduce new products services that are not favorably received; • users feel that their experience diminished result the decisions make with respect the frequency, prominence, format, size, and quality ads that display; • users have difficulty installing, updating, otherwise accessing our products mobile devices result actions third parties that rely distribute our products and deliver our services; • user behavior any our products changes, including decreases the quality and frequency content shared our products and services; • are unable continue develop products for mobile devices that users find engaging, that work with variety mobile operating systems and networks, and that achieve high level market acceptance; • there are decreases user sentiment about the quality usefulness our products concerns related privacy and sharing, safety, security, other factors; • are unable manage and prioritize information ensure users are presented with content that appropriate, interesting, useful, and relevant them; • are unable obtain attract engaging third-party content; • users adopt new technologies where our products may displaced favor other products services, may not featured otherwise available; • there are adverse changes our products that are mandated legislation, regulatory authorities, litigation, including settlements consent decrees; • technical other problems prevent from delivering our products rapid and reliable manner otherwise affect the user experience, such security breaches failure prevent limit spam similar content; • adopt terms, policies, procedures related areas such sharing user data that are perceived negatively our users the general public; • elect focus our user growth and engagement efforts more longer-term initiatives, initiatives designed attract and retain users and engagement are unsuccessful discontinued, whether result actions , third parties, otherwise; • fail provide adequate customer service users, marketers, developers, other partners; • , developers whose products are integrated with our products, other partners and companies our industry are the subject adverse media reports other negative publicity; • our current future products, such our development tools and application programming interfaces that enable developers build, grow, and monetize mobile and web applications, reduce user activity our products making easier for our users interact and share third-party mobile and web applications. are unable maintain increase our user base and user engagement, our revenue and financial results may adversely affected. Any decrease user retention, growth, engagement could render our products less attractive users, marketers, and developers, which likely have material and adverse impact our revenue, business, financial condition, and results operations. our active user growth rate continues slow, will become increasingly dependent our ability maintain increase levels user engagement and monetization order drive revenue growth. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising. The loss marketers, reduction spending marketers, could seriously harm our business. Substantially all our revenue currently generated from third parties advertising Facebook and Instagram. For , , and , advertising accounted for % , % and % , respectively, our revenue. common the industry, our marketers not have long-term advertising commitments with . Many our marketers spend only relatively small portion their overall advertising budget with . addition, marketers may view some our products experimental and unproven. Marketers will not continue business with , they will reduce the prices they are willing pay advertise with the budgets they are willing commit , not deliver ads effective manner, they not believe that their investment advertising with will generate competitive return relative other alternatives. Our advertising revenue could also adversely affected number other factors, including: • decreases user engagement, including time spent our products; • our inability continue increase user access and engagement with our mobile products; • product changes inventory management decisions may make that change the size, format, frequency, relative prominence ads displayed our products other unpaid content shared marketers our products; • our inability maintain increase marketer demand, the pricing our ads, both; • our inability maintain increase the quantity quality ads shown users; • changes third-party policies that limit our ability deliver target advertising mobile devices; • the availability, accuracy, and utility analytics and measurement solutions offered third parties that demonstrate the value our ads marketers, our ability further improve such tools; • loss advertising market share our competitors, including prices for purchasing ads increase competitors offer lower priced more integrated products; • adverse legal developments relating advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments and developments litigation; • decisions marketers reduce their advertising result adverse media reports other negative publicity involving , our advertising metrics, content our products, developers with mobile and web applications that are integrated with our products, other companies our industry; • the effectiveness our targeting degree which users opt out certain types targeting; • the degree which users cease reduce the number times they click our ads; • changes the way advertising mobile devices personal computers measured priced; and • the impact macroeconomic conditions, whether the advertising industry general, among specific types marketers within particular geographies. The occurrence any these other factors could result reduction demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices receive for our ads, cause marketers stop advertising with altogether, either which would negatively affect our revenue and financial results. Our user growth, engagement, and monetization mobile devices depend upon effective operation with mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that not control. The substantial majority our revenue generated from advertising mobile devices. There guarantee that popular mobile devices will continue feature Facebook our other products, that mobile device users will continue use our products rather than competing products. are dependent the interoperability Facebook and our other products with popular mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that not control, such the Android and iOS operating systems. Any changes, bugs, technical issues such systems, changes our relationships with mobile operating system partners, handset manufacturers, mobile carriers, their terms service policies that degrade our products\' functionality, reduce eliminate our ability distribute our products, give preferential treatment competitive products, limit our ability deliver, target, measure the effectiveness ads, charge fees related the distribution our products our delivery ads could adversely affect the usage Facebook our other products and monetization mobile devices. Additionally, order deliver high quality mobile products, important that our products work well with range mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards that not control, and that have good relationships with handset manufacturers and mobile carriers. may not successful maintaining developing relationships with key participants the mobile ecosystem developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks, standards. the event that more difficult for our users access and use Facebook our other products their mobile devices, our users choose not access use Facebook our other products their mobile devices use mobile products that not offer access Facebook our other products, our user growth and user engagement could harmed. From time time, may also take actions regarding the distribution our products the operation our business based what believe our long-term best interests. Such actions may adversely affect our users and our relationships with the operators mobile operating systems, handset manufacturers, mobile carriers, other business partners, and there assurance that these actions will result the anticipated long-term benefits. the event that our users are adversely affected these actions our relationships with such third parties deteriorate, our user growth, engagement, and monetization could adversely affected and our business could harmed. Our business highly competitive. Competition presents ongoing threat the success our business. compete with companies that sell advertising, well with companies that provide social and communication products and services that are designed engage users and capture time spent mobile devices and online. face significant competition every aspect our business, including from companies that facilitate communication and the sharing content and information, companies that enable marketers display advertising, and companies that provide development platforms for applications developers. compete with companies that offer products across broad platforms that replicate capabilities provide. For example, Google has integrated social functionality into number its products, including search, video, and Android. also compete with companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that provide social other communications functionality, such messaging, photo- and video-sharing, and micro-blogging, well companies that provide regional social networks that have strong positions particular countries. addition, face competition from traditional, online, and mobile businesses that provide media for marketers reach their audiences and develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. also compete with companies that develop and deliver virtual reality products and services. Some our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater resources better competitive positions certain product segments, geographic regions user demographics than . These factors may allow our competitors respond more effectively than new emerging technologies and changes market conditions. believe that some our users, particularly our younger users, are aware and actively engaging with other products and services similar , substitute for, Facebook products and services, and believe that some our users have reduced their use and engagement with Facebook favor these other products and services. the event that our users increasingly engage with other products and services, may experience decline use and engagement key user demographics more broadly, which case our business would likely harmed. Our competitors may develop products, features, services that are similar ours that achieve greater acceptance, may undertake more far-reaching and successful product development efforts marketing campaigns, may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. addition, developers whose mobile and web applications are integrated with Facebook our other products may use information shared our users through our products order develop products features that compete with . Some competitors may gain competitive advantage against areas where operate, including: integrating competing platforms, applications, features into products they control such mobile device operating systems, search engines, web browsers; making acquisitions; limiting denying our access advertising measurement delivery systems; limiting our ability deliver, target, measure the effectiveness ads; imposing fees other charges related our delivery ads; making access our products more difficult; making more difficult communicate with our users. result, our competitors may acquire and engage users generate advertising other revenue the expense our own efforts, which may negatively affect our business and financial results. addition, from time time, may take actions response competitive threats, but cannot assure you that these actions will successful that they will not negatively affect our business and financial results. believe that our ability compete effectively depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: • the popularity, usefulness, ease use, performance, and reliability our products compared our competitors\' products; • the size and composition our user base; • the engagement our users with our products and competing products; • the timing and market acceptance products, including developments and enhancements our our competitors\' products; • our ability distribute our products new and existing users; • our ability monetize our products; • the frequency, size, format, quality, and relative prominence the ads displayed our competitors; • customer service and support efforts; • marketing and selling efforts, including our ability measure the effectiveness our ads and provide marketers with compelling return their investments; • our ability establish and maintain developers\' interest building mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook and our other products; • our ability establish and maintain publisher interest integrating their content with Facebook and our other products; • changes mandated legislation, regulatory authorities, litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some which may have disproportionate effect ; • acquisitions consolidation within our industry, which may result more formidable competitors; • our ability attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, particularly software engineers, designers, and product managers; • our ability cost-effectively manage and grow our operations; and • our reputation and brand strength relative those our competitors. are not able compete effectively, our user base and level user engagement may decrease, may become less attractive developers and marketers, and our revenue and results operations may materially and adversely affected. Action governments restrict access Facebook our other products their countries could substantially harm our business and financial results. possible that governments one more countries may seek censor content available Facebook our other products their country, restrict access our products from their country entirely, impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility our products their country for extended period time indefinitely. For example, access Facebook has been currently restricted whole part China, Iran, and North Korea. addition, government authorities other countries may seek restrict access our products they consider violation their laws, and certain our products have been restricted governments other countries from time time. the event that content shown Facebook our other products subject censorship, access our products restricted, whole part, one more countries, other restrictions are imposed our products, our competitors are able successfully penetrate new geographic markets capture greater share existing geographic markets that cannot access where face other restrictions, our ability retain increase our user base and user engagement may adversely affected, may not able maintain grow our revenue anticipated, and our financial results could adversely affected. Our new products and changes existing products could fail attract retain users generate revenue and profits. Our ability retain, increase, and engage our user base and increase our revenue depends heavily our ability continue evolve our existing products and create successful new products, both independently and conjunction with developers other third parties. may introduce significant changes our existing products acquire introduce new and unproven products, including using technologies with which have little prior development operating experience. For example, March , shipped our first virtual reality hardware product, the Oculus Rift. not have prior experience with consumer hardware products virtual reality technology, which may adversely affect our ability successfully develop and market the Oculus Rift and related products technology, and will incur increased costs connection with the development and marketing such products and technology. addition, have invested significant resources growing our WhatsApp and Messenger products. have historically monetized messaging only very limited fashion, and may not successful our efforts generate meaningful revenue from messaging over the long term. these other new enhanced products fail engage users, marketers, developers, are unsuccessful our monetization efforts, may fail attract retain users generate sufficient revenue, operating margin, other value justify our investments, and our business may adversely affected. make product and investment decisions that may not prioritize short-term financial results. frequently make product and investment decisions that may not prioritize short-term financial results believe that the decisions are consistent with our mission and benefit the aggregate user experience and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long term. For example, from time time may change the size, frequency, relative prominence ads order improve quality and overall user experience. Similarly, from time time update our News Feed ranking algorithm deliver the most relevant content our users, which may adversely affect the distribution content marketers and developers and could reduce their incentive invest their development and marketing efforts Facebook. also may introduce changes existing products, introduce new stand-alone products, that direct users away from properties, formats, use cases where have proven means monetization. For example, have taken action redirect users who send messages from within the Facebook application our stand-alone Messenger application, although not monetize the stand-alone Messenger application any significant manner. addition, plan continue focusing growing the user base for WhatsApp and potentially other stand-alone applications that may have limited near-term monetization, and possible that these efforts may reduce engagement with the core Facebook application. are also investing new experiences using video, including Facebook Live, and may not successfully monetize such experiences. also may take steps that result limiting distribution mobile products and services the short term order attempt ensure the availability our products and services users over the long term. These decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that expect, which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with marketers and developers, and our business and results operations could harmed. are not able maintain and enhance our brands, events occur that damage our reputation and brands, our ability expand our base users, marketers, and developers may impaired, and our business and financial results may harmed. believe that our brands have significantly contributed the success our business. also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands critical expanding our base users, marketers, and developers. Many our new users are referred existing users. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely our ability continue provide useful, reliable, trustworthy, and innovative products, which may not successfully. may introduce new products terms service policies that users not like, which may negatively affect our brands. Additionally, the actions our developers advertisers may affect our brands users not have positive experience using third-party mobile and web applications integrated with our products interacting with parties that advertise through our products. will also continue experience media, legislative, regulatory scrutiny our decisions regarding user privacy and other issues, which may adversely affect our reputation and brands. also may fail provide adequate customer service, which could erode confidence our brands. Our brands may also negatively affected the actions users that are deemed hostile inappropriate other users, the actions users acting under false inauthentic identities, the use our products services disseminate information that deemed misleading ( intended manipulate opinions), perceived actual efforts governments obtain access user information for security-related purposes, the use our products services for illicit, objectionable, illegal ends. Maintaining and enhancing our brands may require make substantial investments and these investments may not successful. Certain our past actions have eroded confidence our brands, and fail successfully promote and maintain our brands incur excessive expenses this effort, our business and financial results may adversely affected. Security breaches and improper access disclosure our data user data, other hacking and phishing attacks our systems, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our industry prone cyber-attacks third parties seeking unauthorized access our data users’ data. Any failure prevent mitigate security breaches and improper access disclosure our data user data could result the loss misuse such data, which could harm our business and reputation and diminish our competitive position. addition, computer malware, viruses, social engineering (predominantly spear phishing attacks), and general hacking have become more prevalent our industry, have occurred our systems the past, and will occur our systems the future. result our prominence, believe that are particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks. Such attacks may cause interruptions the services provide, degrade the user experience, cause users lose confidence and trust our products, result financial harm . Our efforts protect our company data the information receive may also unsuccessful due software bugs other technical malfunctions; employee, contractor, vendor error malfeasance; government surveillance; other threats that evolve. addition, third parties may attempt fraudulently induce employees users disclose information order gain access our data our users\' data. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect our data and user data, prevent data loss, and prevent detect security breaches, cannot assure you that such measures will provide absolute security. addition, some our developers other partners, such those that help measure the effectiveness ads, may receive store information provided our users through mobile web applications integrated with Facebook. provide limited information such third parties based the scope services provided . However, these third parties developers fail adopt adhere adequate data security practices, the event breach their networks, our data our users\' data may improperly accessed, used, disclosed. Affected users government authorities could initiate legal regulatory actions against connection with any security breaches improper disclosure data, which could cause incur significant expense and liability result orders consent decrees forcing modify our business practices. Any these events could have material and adverse effect our business, reputation, financial results. Unfavorable media coverage could negatively affect our business. receive high degree media coverage around the world. Unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, our privacy practices, terms service, product changes, product quality, litigation regulatory activity, government surveillance, the actions our advertisers, the actions our developers whose products are integrated with our products, the use our products services for illicit, objectionable, illegal ends, the actions our users, the quality and integrity content shared our platform, the actions other companies that provide similar services , could adversely affect our reputation. Such negative publicity also could have adverse effect the size, engagement, and loyalty our user base and result decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our financial results will fluctuate from quarter quarter and are difficult predict. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated the past and will fluctuate the future. Additionally, have limited operating history with the current scale our business, which makes difficult forecast our future results. result, you should not rely upon our past quarterly financial results indicators future performance. You should take into account the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered companies rapidly evolving markets. Our financial results any given quarter can influenced numerous factors, many which are unable predict are outside our control, including: • our ability maintain and grow our user base and user engagement; • our ability attract and retain marketers particular period; • fluctuations spending our marketers due seasonality, such historically strong spending the fourth quarter each year, episodic regional global events, other factors; • the frequency, prominence, size, format, and quality ads shown users; • the success technologies designed block the display ads; • the pricing our ads and other products; • the diversification and growth revenue sources beyond advertising Facebook and Instagram; • our ability generate revenue from Payments, the sale Oculus products and services other products may introduce the future; • the development and introduction new products services our competitors; • increases marketing, sales, and other operating expenses that will incur grow and expand our operations and remain competitive; • costs and expenses related the development and delivery Oculus products and services; • our ability maintain gross margins and operating margins; • costs related acquisitions, including costs associated with amortization and additional investments develop the acquired technologies; • charges associated with impairment any assets our balance sheet; • our ability obtain equipment, components, and labor for our data centers and other technical infrastructure timely and cost-effective manner; • system failures outages, which could prevent from serving ads for any period time; • breaches security privacy, and the costs associated with any such breaches and remediation; • changes the manner which distribute our products inaccessibility our products due third-party actions; • fees paid third parties for content the distribution our products; • share-based compensation expense, including acquisition-related expense; • adverse litigation judgments, settlements, other litigation-related costs; • changes the legislative regulatory environment, including with respect privacy and data protection, enforcement government regulators, including fines, orders, consent decrees; • the overall tax rate for our business, which may affected number factors, including the financial results our international subsidiaries and the timing, size, and integration acquisitions may make from time time; • tax obligations that may arise from changes laws resolutions tax examinations, including the examination are currently under the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), that materially differ from the amounts have anticipated; • fluctuations currency exchange rates and changes the proportion our revenue and expenses denominated foreign currencies; • fluctuations the market values our portfolio investments and interest rates; • changes . generally accepted accounting principles; and • changes global business macroeconomic conditions. expect our rates growth decline the future. expect that our user growth and revenue growth rates will decline over time the size our active user base increases and achieve greater market penetration. expect our revenue growth rate will generally decline over time our revenue increases higher levels. our growth rates decline, investors\' perceptions our business may adversely affected and the trading price our Class common stock could decline. Our costs are continuing grow, which could harm our business and profitability. Operating our business costly, and expect our expenses continue increase the future broaden our user base, users increase the amount content they consume and the data they share with , for example with respect video, develop and implement new products, continue expand our technical infrastructure, and continue hire additional employees support our expanding operations. expect continue invest our global connectivity efforts and other initiatives, which may not have clear paths monetization. may also subject increased costs order obtain and attract third-party content facilitate the distribution our products. addition, will incur increased costs connection with the development and marketing our Oculus products and services. Any such investments may not successful, and any such increases our costs may adversely affect our business and profitability. Our business subject complex and evolving . and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, competition, consumer protection, and other matters. Many these laws and regulations are subject change and uncertain interpretation, and could result claims, changes our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost operations, declines user growth engagement, otherwise harm our business. are subject variety laws and regulations the United States and abroad that involve matters central our business, including privacy, data protection, and personal information, rights publicity, content, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, distribution, data security, data retention and deletion, personal information, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection minors, consumer protection, telecommunications, product liability, taxation, economic other trade prohibitions sanctions, securities law compliance, and online payment services. The introduction new products, expansion our activities certain jurisdictions, other actions that may take may subject additional laws, regulations, other government scrutiny. addition, foreign data protection, privacy, competition, and other laws and regulations can impose different obligations more restrictive than those the United States. These . federal and state and foreign laws and regulations, which some cases can enforced private parties addition government entities, are constantly evolving and can subject significant change. result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly the new and rapidly evolving industry which operate, and may interpreted and applied inconsistently from country country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. For example, regulatory legislative actions affecting the manner which display content our users obtain consent various practices could adversely affect user growth and engagement. Such actions could affect the manner which provide our services adversely affect our financial results. are also subject laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances can transfer, process and receive transnational data that critical our operations, including data relating users, customers, partners outside the United States, and those laws and regulations are uncertain and subject change. For example, October , the European Court Justice invalidated the European Commission\' Safe Harbour Decision legitimate basis which Facebook could rely for the transfer data from the European Union the United States. The European Union and United States recently agreed alternative transfer framework for data transferred from the European Union the United States, called the Privacy Shield, but this new framework subject annual review that could result changes our obligations and also may challenged national regulators private parties. addition, the other bases which Facebook relies legitimize the transfer data, such standard Model Contractual Clauses (MCCs), have been subjected regulatory judicial scrutiny. For example, the Irish Data Protection Commissioner investigating and has challenged the legal grounds for transfers user data Facebook, Inc. one more the legal bases for transferring data from Europe the United States invalidated, Facebook unable transfer personal data between and among countries and regions which operates, could affect the manner which provide our services adversely affect our financial results. Proposed new legislation and regulations could also significantly affect our business. There currently are number proposals pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies. addition, the European Commission has approved data protection regulation, known the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been finalized and due come into force around May . The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies that receive process personal data residents the European Union that are different than those currently place the European Union, and that will include significant penalties for non-compliance. Similarly, there are number legislative proposals the United States, both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations areas affecting our business, such liability for copyright infringement third parties. addition, some countries are considering have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements requiring local storage and processing data similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity delivering our services. These laws and regulations, well any associated inquiries investigations any other government actions, may costly comply with and may delay impede the development new products, result negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject remedies that may harm our business, including fines demands orders that modify cease existing business practices. have been subject regulatory investigations and settlements, and expect continue subject such proceedings and other inquires the future, which could cause incur substantial costs require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business. From time time, receive formal and informal inquiries from government authorities and regulators regarding our compliance with laws and regulations, many which are evolving and subject interpretation. are and expect continue the subject investigations, inquiries, actions, and audits the United States, Europe, and around the world, particularly the areas privacy, data protection, consumer protection, and competition, continue grow and expand our operations. For example, several data protection authorities the European Union have initiated actions, investigations, administrative orders seeking assert jurisdiction over Facebook, Inc. and our subsidiaries and restrict the ways which collect and use information, and other data protection authorities may the same. Further, the European Commission’ Directorate General for Competition has issued Statement Objections connection with our acquisition WhatsApp and investigating whether Facebook provided incorrect misleading information during the merger review process (though the investigation will not have impact the merger approval). Orders issued , inquiries enforcement actions initiated , government regulatory authorities could cause incur substantial costs, expose unanticipated civil and criminal liability penalties (including substantial monetary fines), require change our business practices manner materially adverse our business. are unable protect our intellectual property, the value our brands and other intangible assets may diminished, and our business may adversely affected. rely and expect continue rely combination confidentiality, assignment, and license agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom have relationships, well trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret, and domain name protection laws, protect our proprietary rights. the United States and internationally, have filed various applications for protection certain aspects our intellectual property, and currently hold number issued patents multiple jurisdictions and have acquired patents and patent applications from third parties. addition, the future may acquire additional patents patent portfolios, which could require significant cash expenditures. Third parties may knowingly unknowingly infringe our proprietary rights, third parties may challenge proprietary rights held , and pending and future trademark and patent applications may not approved. addition, effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which operate intend operate our business. any all these cases, may required expend significant time and expense order prevent infringement enforce our rights. Although have generally taken measures protect our proprietary rights, there can assurance that others will not offer products concepts that are substantially similar ours and compete with our business. addition, regularly contribute software source code under open source licenses and have made other technology developed available under other open licenses, and include open source software our products. For example, have contributed certain specifications and designs related our data center equipment the Open Compute Project Foundation, non-profit entity that shares and develops such information with the technology community, under the Open Web Foundation License. result our open source contributions and the use open source our products, may license required license disclose code and innovations that turn out material our business and may also exposed increased litigation risk. the protection our proprietary rights inadequate prevent unauthorized use appropriation third parties, the value our brands and other intangible assets may diminished and competitors may able more effectively mimic our products, services, and methods operations. Any these events could have adverse effect our business and financial results. are currently, and expect the future, party patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming and, resolved adversely, could have significant impact our business, financial condition, results operations. Companies the Internet, technology, and media industries own large numbers patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based allegations infringement, misappropriation, other violations intellectual property other rights. addition, various "non-practicing entities" that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt aggressively assert their rights order extract value from technology companies. Furthermore, from time time may introduce acquire new products, including areas where historically have not competed, which could increase our exposure patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. From time time, receive notice letters from patent holders alleging that certain our products and services infringe their patent rights. presently are involved number intellectual property lawsuits, and face increasing competition and gain increasingly high profile, expect the number patent and other intellectual property claims against grow. Defending patent and other intellectual property litigation costly and can impose significant burden management and employees, and there can assurances that favorable final outcomes will obtained all cases. addition, plaintiffs may seek, and may become subject , preliminary provisional rulings the course any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring cease some all our operations. may decide settle such lawsuits and disputes terms that are unfavorable . Similarly, any litigation which are party resolved adversely, may subject unfavorable judgment that may not reversed upon appeal. The terms such settlement judgment may require cease some all our operations pay substantial amounts the other party. addition, may have seek license continue practices found violation third party\' rights, which may not available reasonable terms, all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. result, may also required develop alternative non-infringing technology practices discontinue the practices. The development alternative non-infringing technology practices could require significant effort and expense may not feasible. Our business, financial condition, and results operations could adversely affected result unfavorable resolution the disputes and litigation referred above. are involved numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation matters that are expensive and time consuming, and, resolved adversely, could harm our business, financial condition, results operations. addition intellectual property claims, are also involved numerous other lawsuits, including putative class action lawsuits, many which claim statutory damages and seek significant changes our business operations, and anticipate that will continue target for numerous lawsuits the future. Because the scale our user base, the plaintiffs class action cases filed against typically claim enormous monetary damages even the alleged per-user harm small non-existent. addition, may subject additional class action lawsuits based product performance other claims related the use consumer hardware and software, well virtual reality technology and products, which are new and unproven. Any negative outcome from any such lawsuits could result payments substantial monetary damages fines, undesirable changes our products business practices, and accordingly our business, financial condition, results operations could materially and adversely affected. Although the results such lawsuits and claims cannot predicted with certainty, not believe that the final outcome those matters relating our products that currently face will have material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results operations. addition, are currently the subject stockholder class action suits connection with our IPO and with our intention create new class capital stock (Class capital stock) and declare and pay dividend two shares Class capital stock for each outstanding share Class and Class common stock (the Reclassification). believe these lawsuits are without merit and are vigorously defending these lawsuits. There can assurances that favorable final outcome will obtained all our cases, and defending any lawsuit costly and can impose significant burden management and employees. Any litigation which are party may result onerous unfavorable judgment that may not reversed upon appeal payments substantial monetary damages fines, may decide settle lawsuits similarly unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results operations. may incur liability result information retrieved from transmitted over the Internet published using our products result claims related our products. have faced, currently face, and will continue face claims relating information that published made available our products. particular, the nature our business exposes claims related defamation, dissemination misinformation news hoaxes, intellectual property rights, rights publicity and privacy, personal injury torts, local laws regulating hate speech other types content. This risk enhanced certain jurisdictions outside the United States where our protection from liability for third-party actions may unclear and where may less protected under local laws than are the United States. could incur significant costs investigating and defending such claims and, are found liable, significant damages. could also face orders restricting blocking our services particular geographies result content hosted our services. any these events occur, our business and financial results could adversely affected. Our CEO has control over key decision making result his control majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock. Mark Zuckerberg, our founder, Chairman, and CEO, able exercise voting rights with respect majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock and therefore has the ability control the outcome matters submitted our stockholders for approval, including the election directors and any merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets. This concentrated control could delay, defer, prevent change control, merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets that our other stockholders support, conversely this concentrated control could result the consummation such transaction that our other stockholders not support. This concentrated control could also discourage potential investor from acquiring our Class common stock, which has limited voting power relative the Class common stock, issued, our Class capital stock, which will generally have voting power, and might harm the trading price our Class common stock and, issued, our Class capital stock. addition, . Zuckerberg has the ability control the management and major strategic investments our company result his position our CEO and his ability control the election replacement our directors. the event his death, the shares our capital stock that . Zuckerberg owns will transferred the persons entities that has designated. board member and officer, . Zuckerberg owes fiduciary duty our stockholders and must act good faith manner reasonably believes the best interests our stockholders. stockholder, even controlling stockholder, . Zuckerberg entitled vote his shares, and shares over which has voting control governed voting agreement, his own interests, which may not always the interests our stockholders generally. Moreover, since our Class capital stock, issued, will generally have voting power, the issuance the Class capital stock, including connection with future financings, acquisitions, the issuance future equity awards, could have the effect prolonging the duration . Zuckerberg\' ability exercise voting rights with respect majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock and therefore his ability control the outcome matters submitted our stockholders for approval, including the election directors, and any merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets. believe that . Zuckerberg\' continued control majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock beneficial and the best interests our stockholders. the event that . Zuckerberg longer controls majority the voting power, whether result the disposition some all his shares Class Class common stock otherwise, our business the trading price our Class common stock and, issued, our Class capital stock may adversely affected. plan continue make acquisitions, which could harm our financial condition results operations and may adversely affect the price our common stock. part our business strategy, have made and intend continue make acquisitions add specialized employees and complementary companies, products, technologies. may not able find suitable acquisition candidates, and may not able complete acquisitions favorable terms, all. some cases, the costs such acquisitions may substantial. For example, paid approximately $ billion cash and issued million shares our Class common stock connection with our acquisition WhatsApp, and paid approximately $ million cash and issued million shares our Class common stock connection with our acquisition Oculus. also issued substantial number RSUs help retain the employees these companies. There assurance that will receive favorable return investment for these other acquisitions. may pay substantial amounts cash incur debt pay for acquisitions, which could adversely affect our liquidity. The incurrence indebtedness would also result increased fixed obligations, increased interest expense, and could also include covenants other restrictions that would impede our ability manage our operations. may also issue equity securities pay for acquisitions and regularly grant RSUs retain the employees acquired companies, which could increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial results, and result dilution our stockholders. addition, any acquisitions announce could viewed negatively users, marketers, developers, investors, which may adversely affect our business the price our Class common stock. the future, may use shares Class capital stock consideration connection with acquisitions. However, may not able issue shares Class capital stock because companies that are interested acquiring may not agree accept shares that carry voting rights, for other reasons. the Class capital stock trades discount the Class common stock, companies that seek acquire may also demand more shares Class capital stock exchange for accepting such stock consideration. such instances, may need pay cash, issue shares our Class Class common stock consideration, issue relatively greater number shares Class capital stock consummate the acquisitions. may also discover liabilities deficiencies associated with the companies assets acquire that were not identified advance, which may result significant unanticipated costs. The effectiveness our due diligence review and our ability evaluate the results such due diligence are dependent upon the accuracy and completeness statements and disclosures made actions taken the companies acquire their representatives, well the limited amount time which acquisitions are executed. addition, may fail accurately forecast the financial impact acquisition transaction, including tax and accounting charges. Acquisitions may also result our recording significant additional expenses our results operations and recording substantial finite-lived intangible assets our balance sheet upon closing. Any these factors may adversely affect our financial condition results operations. may not able successfully integrate our acquisitions, and may incur significant costs integrate and support the companies acquire. The integration acquisitions requires significant time and resources, and may not manage these processes successfully. Our ability successfully integrate complex acquisitions unproven, particularly with respect companies that have significant operations that develop products where not have prior experience. For example, Oculus and WhatsApp are larger and more complex than companies have historically acquired. particular, Oculus builds technology and products that are new Facebook and with which did not have significant experience structure place support prior the acquisition. are making substantial investments resources support these acquisitions, which will result significant ongoing operating expenses and may divert resources and management attention from other areas our business. cannot assure you that these investments will successful. fail successfully integrate the companies acquire, may not realize the benefits expected from the transaction and our business may harmed. our goodwill finite-lived intangible assets become impaired, may required record significant charge earnings. review our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable, such decline stock price and market capitalization. test goodwill for impairment least annually. such goodwill finite-lived intangible assets are deemed impaired, impairment loss equal the amount which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value the assets would recognized. may required record significant charge our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill finite-lived intangible assets determined, which would negatively affect our results operations. Our business dependent our ability maintain and scale our technical infrastructure, and any significant disruption our service could damage our reputation, result potential loss users and engagement, and adversely affect our financial results. Our reputation and ability attract, retain, and serve our users dependent upon the reliable performance our products and our underlying technical infrastructure. Our systems may not adequately designed with the necessary reliability and redundancy avoid performance delays outages that could harmful our business. our products are unavailable when users attempt access them, they not load quickly expected, users may not use our products often the future, all, and our ability serve ads may disrupted. our user base and engagement continue grow, and the amount and types information shared Facebook and our other products continue grow and evolve, such increased engagement with video, will need increasing amount technical infrastructure, including network capacity and computing power, continue satisfy the needs our users. possible that may fail continue effectively scale and grow our technical infrastructure accommodate these increased demands. addition, our business may subject interruptions, delays, failures resulting from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, power loss, terrorism, cyber-attacks, other catastrophic events. such event were occur, users may subject service disruptions outages and may not able recover our technical infrastructure and user data timely manner restart provide our services, which may adversely affect our financial results. substantial portion our network infrastructure provided third parties. Any disruption failure the services receive from these providers, including result cyber-attacks, could harm our ability handle existing increased traffic and could significantly harm our business. Any financial other difficulties these providers face may adversely affect our business, and exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability problems with the services they provide. could experience unforeseen difficulties building and operating key portions our technical infrastructure. have designed and built our own data centers and key portions our technical infrastructure through which serve our products, and plan continue significantly expand the size our infrastructure primarily through data centers and other projects. The infrastructure expansion are undertaking complex, and unanticipated delays the completion these projects, including due any shortage labor necessary building portions such projects, availability components may lead increased project costs, operational inefficiencies, interruptions the delivery degradation the quality our products. addition, there may issues related this infrastructure that are not identified during the testing phases design and implementation, which may only become evident after have started fully utilize the underlying equipment, that could further degrade the user experience increase our costs. Our products and internal systems rely software that highly technical, and contains undetected errors vulnerabilities, our business could adversely affected. Our products and internal systems rely software, including software developed maintained internally and third parties, that highly technical and complex. addition, our products and internal systems depend the ability such software store, retrieve, process, and manage immense amounts data. The software which rely has contained, and will the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, vulnerabilities. Some errors may only discovered after the code has been released for external internal use. Errors, vulnerabilities, other design defects within the software which rely may result negative experience for users and marketers who use our products, delay product introductions enhancements, result targeting, measurement, billing errors, compromise our ability protect the data our users and our intellectual property lead reductions our ability provide some all our services. addition, any errors, bugs, vulnerabilities, defects discovered the software which rely, and any associated degradations interruptions service, could result damage our reputation, loss users, loss revenue, liability for damages, any which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Technologies have been developed that can block the display our ads, which could adversely affect our financial results. Technologies have been developed, and will likely continue developed, that can block the display our ads, particularly advertising displayed personal computers. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising, including revenue resulting from the display ads personal computers. Revenue generated from the display ads personal computers has been impacted these technologies from time time. result, these technologies have had adverse effect our financial results and, such technologies continue proliferate, particular with respect mobile platforms, our future financial results may harmed. Real perceived inaccuracies our user and other metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. The numbers for our key metrics, which include our DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), are calculated using internal company data based the activity user accounts. While these numbers are based what believe reasonable estimates our user base for the applicable period measurement, there are inherent challenges measuring usage our products across large online and mobile populations around the world. addition, are continually seeking improve our estimates our user base, and such estimates may change due improvements changes our methodology. For example, the number duplicate false accounts maintained users violation our terms service may change our methodologies evolve. , estimate that "duplicate" accounts ( account that user maintains addition his her principal account) may have represented approximately % our worldwide MAUs. also seek identify "false" accounts, which divide into two categories: ( ) user-misclassified accounts, where users have created personal profiles for business, organization, non-human entity such pet (such entities are permitted Facebook using Page rather than personal profile under our terms service); and ( ) undesirable accounts, which represent user profiles that determine are intended used for purposes that violate our terms service, such spamming. , for example, estimate that such user-misclassified and undesirable accounts may have represented approximately % our worldwide MAUs. believe the percentage accounts that are duplicate false meaningfully lower developed markets such the United States United Kingdom and higher developing markets such India and Turkey. However, these estimates are based internal review limited sample accounts and apply significant judgment making this determination, such identifying names that appear fake other behavior that appears inauthentic the reviewers. such, our estimation duplicate false accounts may not accurately represent the actual number such accounts. Our data limitations may affect our understanding certain details our business. For example, while user-provided data indicates decline usage among younger users, this age data unreliable because disproportionate number our younger users register with inaccurate age. Accordingly, our understanding usage age group may not complete. addition, our data regarding the geographic location our users estimated based number factors, such the user\' address and self-disclosed location. These factors may not always accurately reflect the user\' actual location. For example, user may appear accessing Facebook from the location the proxy server that the user connects rather than from the user\' actual location. The methodologies used measure user metrics may also susceptible algorithm other technical errors. Our estimates for revenue user location and revenue user device are also affected these factors. For example, discovered error the algorithm used attribute our revenue user geography late . While this issue did not affect our overall worldwide revenue, did affect our attribution revenue different geographic regions. The fourth quarter revenue user geography and ARPU amounts were adjusted reflect this reclassification. regularly review our processes for calculating these metrics, and from time time may discover inaccuracies our metrics make adjustments improve their accuracy, including adjustments that may result the recalculation our historical metrics. believe that any such inaccuracies adjustments are immaterial unless otherwise stated. addition, our DAU and MAU estimates will differ from estimates published third parties due differences methodology. addition, from time time provide, rely , certain other metrics, including those relating the reach and effectiveness our ads. All our metrics are subject software bugs, inconsistencies our systems, and human error. marketers, developers, investors not perceive our metrics accurate, discover material inaccuracies our metrics, may subject liability, our reputation may harmed, and marketers and developers may less willing allocate their budgets resources Facebook, which could negatively affect our business and financial results. cannot assure you that will effectively manage our growth. Our employee headcount and the scope and complexity our business have increased significantly, with the number employees increasing , December , from , December , , and expect headcount growth continue for the foreseeable future. The growth and expansion our business and products create significant challenges for our management, operational, and financial resources, including managing multiple relations with users, marketers, developers, and other third parties. the event continued growth our operations the number our third-party relationships, our information technology systems our internal controls and procedures may not adequate support our operations. addition, some members our management not have significant experience managing large global business operation, our management may not able manage such growth effectively. effectively manage our growth, must continue improve our operational, financial, and management processes and systems and effectively expand, train, and manage our employee base. our organization continues grow, and are required implement more complex organizational management structures, may find increasingly difficult maintain the benefits our corporate culture, including our ability quickly develop and launch new and innovative products. This could negatively affect our business performance. The loss one more our key personnel, our failure attract and retain other highly qualified personnel the future, could harm our business. currently depend the continued services and performance our key personnel, including Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl . Sandberg. Although have entered into employment agreements with . Zuckerberg and . Sandberg, the agreements have specific duration and constitute -will employment. addition, many our key technologies and systems are custom-made for our business our personnel. The loss key personnel, including members management well key engineering, product development, marketing, and sales personnel, could disrupt our operations and have adverse effect our business. continue grow, cannot guarantee will continue attract the personnel need maintain our competitive position. particular, intend continue hire significant number technical personnel the foreseeable future, and expect continue face significant competition from other companies hiring such personnel, particularly the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located and where the cost living high. continue mature, the incentives attract, retain, and motivate employees provided our equity awards future arrangements may not effective the past, and issue significant equity attract additional employees, the ownership our existing stockholders may further diluted. Our ability attract, retain, and motivate employees may also adversely affected stock price volatility. Additionally, have number current employees whose equity ownership our company has provided them substantial amount personal wealth, which could affect their decisions about whether not continue work for . result these factors, may difficult for continue retain and motivate our employees. not succeed attracting, hiring, and integrating excellent personnel, retaining and motivating existing personnel, may unable grow effectively. may not able continue successfully grow usage and engagement with mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook and our other products. have made and are continuing make investments enable developers build, grow, and monetize mobile and web applications that integrate with Facebook and our other products. Such existing and prospective developers may not successful building, growing, monetizing mobile and web applications that create and maintain user engagement. Additionally, developers may choose build other platforms, including mobile platforms controlled third parties, rather than building products that integrate with Facebook and our other products. are continuously seeking balance the distribution objectives our developers with our desire provide optimal user experience, and may not successful achieving balance that continues attract and retain such developers. For example, from time time, have taken actions reduce the volume communications from these developers users Facebook and our other products with the objective enhancing the user experience, and such actions have reduced distribution from, user engagement with, and our monetization opportunities from, mobile and web applications integrated with our products. some instances, these actions, well other actions enforce our policies applicable developers, have adversely affected our relationships with such developers. are not successful our efforts continue grow the number developers that choose build products that integrate with Facebook and our other products are unable continue build and maintain good relations with such developers, our user growth and user engagement and our financial results may adversely affected. currently generate substantially all our Payments revenue from developers that use Facebook personal computers, and expect that our Payments revenue will continue decline the future usage Facebook personal computers continues decline. currently generate substantially all our Payments revenue from developers that use Facebook personal computers. Specifically, applications built developers social games are currently responsible for substantially all our revenue derived from Payments, and the majority the revenue from these applications has historically been generated limited number the most popular games. have experienced and expect see the continued decline usage Facebook personal computers for the foreseeable future, which expect will result continuing decline Payments revenue. addition, relatively small percentage our users have transacted with Facebook Payments. the Facebook-integrated applications fail grow maintain their users and engagement, whether result the continued decline the usage Facebook personal computers otherwise, developers not continue introduce new applications that attract users and create engagement Facebook, Facebook-integrated applications outside social games not gain popularity and generate significant revenue for , our financial performance could adversely affected. Payment transactions may subject additional regulatory requirements and other risks that could costly and difficult comply with that could harm our business. Our users can purchase virtual and digital goods from developers that offer applications using our Payments infrastructure the Facebook website. addition, certain our users can use our Payments infrastructure, including Messenger, for other activities, such sending money other users and making donations certain charitable organizations. are subject variety laws and regulations the United States, Europe, and elsewhere, including those governing anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing, money transmission, gift cards and other prepaid access instruments, electronic funds transfer, charitable fundraising, and import and export restrictions. Depending how our Payments product evolves, may also subject other laws and regulations including those governing gambling, banking, and lending. some jurisdictions, the application interpretation these laws and regulations not clear. increase flexibility how our use Payments may evolve and mitigate regulatory uncertainty, have received certain money transmitter licenses the United States and Electronic Money ( -Money) license that allows conduct certain regulated payment activities the participating member countries the European Economic Area, which will generally require demonstrate compliance with many domestic and foreign laws these areas. Our efforts comply with these laws and regulations could costly and result diversion management time and effort and may still not guarantee compliance. the event that are found violation any such legal regulatory requirements, may subject monetary fines other penalties such cease and desist order, may required make product changes, any which could have adverse effect our business and financial results. addition, may subject variety additional risks result Payments transactions, including: • increased costs and diversion management time and effort and other resources deal with bad transactions customer disputes; • potential fraudulent otherwise illegal activity users, developers, employees, third parties; • restrictions the investment consumer funds used transact Payments; and • additional disclosure and reporting requirements. have significant international operations and plan continue expanding our operations abroad where have limited operating experience, and this may subject increased business and economic risks that could affect our financial results. have significant international operations and plan continue the international expansion our business operations and the translation our products. currently make Facebook available more than different languages, and have offices data centers more than different countries. may enter new international markets where have limited experience marketing, selling, and deploying our products. Our products are generally available globally through the web and mobile, but some all our products functionality may not available certain markets due legal and regulatory complexities. For example, Facebook not generally available China. also outsource certain operational functions third-party vendors globally. fail deploy, manage, oversee our international operations successfully, our business may suffer. addition, are subject variety risks inherent doing business internationally, including: • political, social, economic instability; • risks related legal, regulatory, and other government scrutiny applicable . companies with sales and operations foreign jurisdictions, including with respect privacy, tax, law enforcement, content, trade compliance, intellectual property, and terrestrial infrastructure matters; • potential damage our brand and reputation due compliance with local laws, including potential censorship requirements provide user information local authorities; • fluctuations currency exchange rates and compliance with currency controls; • foreign exchange controls and tax regulations that might prevent from repatriating cash earned countries outside the United States otherwise limit our ability move cash freely, and impede our ability invest such cash efficiently; • higher levels credit risk and payment fraud; • enhanced difficulties integrating any foreign acquisitions; • burdens complying with variety foreign laws; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights some countries; • difficulties staffing, managing, and overseeing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • compliance with the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the . Bribery Act, and similar laws other jurisdictions; and • compliance with statutory equity requirements and management tax consequences. are unable expand internationally and manage the complexity our global operations successfully, our financial results could adversely affected. face design, manufacturing, and supply chain risks that, not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results. face number risks related design, manufacturing, and supply chain management with respect our Oculus products. For example, the Oculus products sell may have quality issues resulting from the design manufacture the products, from the software used the products. Sometimes, these issues may caused components purchase from other manufacturers suppliers. the quality our Oculus products does not meet our customers\' expectations such products are found defective, then our financial results could adversely affected. rely third parties manufacture our Oculus products. may experience supply shortages other supply chain disruptions the future that could result shipping delays and negatively impact our operations. could negatively affected are not able engage third parties with the necessary capabilities capacity reasonable terms, those engage with fail meet their obligations (whether due financial difficulties other reasons), make adverse changes the pricing other material terms such arrangements with them. also require the suppliers and business partners our Oculus products comply with laws and certain company policies regarding sourcing practices, but not control them their practices. any them violates laws implements practices regarded unethical corrupt, could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, damage our reputation. addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission’ conflict minerals rule requires disclosure public companies information relating the origin, source and chain custody specified minerals, known conflict minerals, that are necessary the functionality production products manufactured contracted manufactured. may incur significant costs associated with complying with the rule, such costs related the determination the origin, source and chain custody the minerals used Oculus products, the adoption conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls, and possible changes products sources supply result such activities. may face inventory risk with respect our Oculus products. may exposed inventory risks with respect our Oculus products result rapid changes product cycles and pricing, unsafe defective merchandise, changes consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes consumer tastes with respect Oculus products, and other factors. endeavor accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products Oculus may sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory components are ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling manufacturing new Oculus product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition certain types inventory components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not returnable. Any one these factors may adversely affect our operating results. may have exposure greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our income tax obligations are based part our corporate operating structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner which operate our business, develop, value, manage, protect, and use our intellectual property and the valuations our intercompany transactions. The tax laws applicable our business, including the laws the United States and other jurisdictions, are subject interpretation and certain jurisdictions are aggressively interpreting their laws new ways effort raise additional tax revenue from companies such Facebook. The taxing authorities the jurisdictions which operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results operations. For example, the IRS recently issued formal assessment relating transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries conjunction with the examination the tax year, and although disagree with the IRS\' position and are contesting this issue, the ultimate resolution uncertain and, resolved manner unfavorable , may adversely affect our financial results. are subject regular review and audit . federal and state and foreign tax authorities. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions have taken and any adverse outcome such review audit could have negative effect our financial position and results operations. addition, the determination our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Our provision for income taxes also determined the manner which operate our business, and any changes such operations laws applicable such operations may affect our effective tax rate. Although believe that our provision for income taxes reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results the period periods for which such determination made. addition, our future income taxes could adversely affected earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, changes the valuation our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws, regulations, accounting principles. For example, have previously incurred losses certain international subsidiaries that resulted effective tax rate that significantly higher than the statutory tax rate the United States and this could continue happen the future. Changes tax laws tax rulings could materially affect our financial position and results operations. The tax regimes are subject operate under are unsettled and may subject significant change. Changes tax laws tax rulings, changes interpretations existing laws, could materially affect our financial position and results operations. Many countries Europe, well number other countries and organizations, have recently proposed recommended changes existing tax laws have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations many countries where business require change the manner which operate our business. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and has issued , and expected continue issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined many the countries which business. The European Commission has conducted investigations multiple countries focusing whether local country tax rulings tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland, have provided illegal state aid certain cases. These investigations may result changes the tax treatment our foreign operations. addition, the current . administration and key members Congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform priority. Certain changes . tax laws, including limitations the ability defer . taxation earnings outside the United States until those earnings are repatriated the United States, could affect the tax treatment our foreign earnings. Due the large and expanding scale our international business activities, many these types changes the taxation our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results operations. cannot guarantee that our recently announced share repurchase program will fully consummated that will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility the trading price our stock and could diminish our cash reserves. November , our board directors authorized the repurchase $ billion our Class common stock commencing . The repurchase program does not have expiration date. Although our board directors has authorized this share repurchase program, the program does not obligate repurchase any specific dollar amount acquire any specific number shares. The program could affect the trading price our stock and increase volatility, and any announcement termination this program may result decrease the trading price our stock. addition, this program could diminish our cash reserves. Risks Related Ownership Our Class Common Stock The trading price our Class common stock has been and will likely continue volatile, and the creation and dividend Class capital stock effected, the trading price that class will likely volatile and may impact the trading price for the Class common stock. The trading price our Class common stock has been, and likely continue , volatile. Since shares our Class common stock were sold our IPO May price $ per share, our stock price has ranged from $ $ through December , . addition the factors discussed this Annual Report Form - , the trading price our Class common stock may fluctuate significantly response numerous factors, many which are beyond our control, including: • actual anticipated fluctuations our revenue and other operating results; • the financial projections may provide the public, any changes these projections our failure meet these projections; • actions securities analysts who initiate maintain coverage , changes financial estimates any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure meet these estimates the expectations investors; • additional shares our stock being sold into the market , our existing stockholders, connection with acquisitions, including shares sold our employees cover tax liabilities connection with RSU vesting events, the anticipation such sales; • investor sentiment with respect our competitors, our business partners, and our industry general; • announcements our competitors significant products features, technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments; • announcements estimates third parties actual anticipated changes the size our user base, the level user engagement, the effectiveness our products; • changes operating performance and stock market valuations technology companies our industry, including our developers and competitors; • price and volume fluctuations the overall stock market, including result trends the economy whole; • the inclusion, exclusion, deletion our stock from any trading indices, such the & Index; • media coverage our business and financial performance; • lawsuits threatened filed against ; • developments anticipated new legislation and pending lawsuits regulatory actions, including interim final rulings tax, judicial, regulatory bodies; • trading activity our share repurchase program; and • other events factors, including those resulting from war incidents terrorism, responses these events. addition, recently announced proposal create new class non-voting capital stock, known Class capital stock, and distribute two shares Class capital stock dividend the holders our Class and Class common stock. While this proposal has been approved our stockholders, the record and payment dates for this dividend will determined our board directors its discretion and there can assurance the timing such dates. Once the dividend distributed, expect that the market price for the shares our Class common stock will generally reflect the effect three-for-one stock split. The pending Reclassification currently subject class action lawsuits that were filed behalf our stockholders. issued, plan list the Class capital stock the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. The trading price for the Class capital stock may volatile and affected the factors noted with respect our Class common stock above. The trading price the Class capital stock may also affected the difference voting rights compared our Class and Class common shares, the liquidity the market for Class capital stock, and investor demand for Class capital stock, including that institutional investors that may unwilling, unable, choose not hold non-voting shares our capital stock. addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue affect the market prices equity securities many technology companies. Stock prices many technology companies have fluctuated manner unrelated disproportionate the operating performance those companies. are currently subject securities litigation connection with our IPO. may experience more such litigation following future periods volatility. Any securities litigation could subject substantial costs, divert resources and the attention management from our business, and adversely affect our business. not intend pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. have never declared paid cash dividends our capital stock. currently intend retain any future earnings finance the operation and expansion our business, and not expect declare pay any cash dividends the foreseeable future. result, you may only receive return your investment our Class common stock and, issued, our Class capital stock the trading price your shares increases. The dual class structure our common stock and voting agreement between certain stockholders have the effect concentrating voting control with our CEO and certain other holders our Class common stock; this will limit preclude your ability influence corporate matters. Our Class common stock has ten votes per share, and our Class common stock has one vote per share, and intend create Class capital stock that generally has voting rights. Stockholders who hold shares Class common stock, including certain our executive officers, employees, and directors and their affiliates, together hold substantial majority the voting power our outstanding capital stock. Because the ten- -one voting ratio between our Class and Class common stock, the holders our Class common stock collectively control majority the combined voting power our common stock and therefore are able control all matters submitted our stockholders for approval long the shares Class common stock represent least % all outstanding shares our Class and Class common stock. This concentrated control will limit preclude your ability influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future. Transfers holders Class common stock will generally result those shares converting Class common stock, subject limited exceptions, such certain transfers effected for estate planning charitable purposes. The conversion Class common stock Class common stock will have the effect, over time, increasing the relative voting power those holders Class common stock who retain their shares the long term. , for example, . Zuckerberg retains significant portion his holdings Class common stock for extended period time, could, the future, continue control majority the combined voting power our outstanding capital stock. Our status "controlled company" could make our Class common stock less attractive some investors otherwise harm our stock price. Because qualify "controlled company" under the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies, are not required have majority our board directors independent, nor are required have compensation committee independent nominating function. connection with the pending Reclassification, intend amend our corporate governance guidelines provide that will not avail ourselves the "controlled company" exemption with respect the independence the members our compensation & governance committee. However, not have separate and independent nominating function and will continue have the full board directors directly responsible for nominating members our board. addition, the future could elect not have majority our board directors independent not have compensation committee. Accordingly, should the interests our controlling stockholder differ from those other stockholders, the other stockholders may not have the same protections afforded stockholders companies that are subject all the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies. Our status controlled company could make our Class common stock and, issued, our Class capital stock less attractive some investors otherwise harm our stock price. Delaware law and provisions our restated certificate incorporation and bylaws could make merger, tender offer, proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price our Class common stock. Our status Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, prevent change control prohibiting from engaging business combination with interested stockholder for period three years after the person becomes interested stockholder, even change control would beneficial our existing stockholders. addition, our current restated certificate incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition our company more difficult, including the following: • until the first date which the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than % the combined voting power our common stock, any transaction that would result change control our company requires the approval majority our outstanding Class common stock voting separate class; • currently have dual class common stock structure, which provides . Zuckerberg with the ability control the outcome matters requiring stockholder approval, even owns significantly less than majority the shares our outstanding Class and Class common stock; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power common stock, certain amendments our restated certificate incorporation bylaws will require the approval two-thirds the combined vote our then-outstanding shares Class and Class common stock; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, vacancies our board directors will able filled only our board directors and not stockholders; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, our board directors will classified into three classes directors with staggered three-year terms and directors will only able removed from office for cause; • when the outstanding shares our Class common stock represent less than majority the combined voting power our common stock, our stockholders will only able take action meeting stockholders and not written consent; • only our chairman, our chief executive officer, our president, majority our board directors are authorized call special meeting stockholders; • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders nominate candidates for election directors bring matters before annual meeting stockholders; • our restated certificate incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms which may established, and shares which may issued, without stockholder approval; and • certain litigation against can only brought Delaware. intend amend and restate our restated certificate incorporation create, further described above, new class non-voting capital stock which may prolong . Zuckerberg’ ability control the outcome matters submitted our stockholders for approval, including the election directors and any merger, consolidation, sale all substantially all our assets. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties Our corporate headquarters are located Menlo Park, California. December , , owned and leased approximately two million square feet office buildings for our corporate headquarters, and acres land developed accommodate anticipated future growth. addition, leased offices around the world totaling approximately three million square feet. also own and lease data centers throughout the United States and various locations internationally. Further, entered into agreements lease office buildings that are under construction. result our involvement during these construction periods, are considered for accounting purposes the owner the construction projects. such, have excluded the square footage from the total leased space and owned properties, disclosed above. believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs. ', 'item 3. ': "Legal Proceedings Beginning May , , multiple putative class actions, derivative actions, and individual actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and other jurisdictions against , our directors, and certain our officers alleging violation securities laws breach fiduciary duties connection with our initial public offering (IPO) and seeking unspecified damages. believe these lawsuits are without merit, and intend continue vigorously defend them. The vast majority the cases the United States, along with multiple cases filed against The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. and The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (collectively referred herein NASDAQ) alleging technical and other trading-related errors NASDAQ connection with our IPO, were ordered centralized for coordinated consolidated pre-trial proceedings the . District Court for the Southern District New York. series rulings and , the court denied our motion dismiss the consolidated securities class action and granted our motions dismiss the derivative actions against our directors and certain our officers. July , , the court appeals affirmed the dismissal the derivative actions. December , , the court granted plaintiffs' motion for class certification the consolidated securities action. addition, the events surrounding our IPO became the subject various state and federal government inquiries. May , the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) notified that had terminated its inquiry and that enforcement action had been recommended the SEC. April , , announced proposal create new class non-voting capital stock (Class capital stock) and our intention declare and pay dividend two shares Class capital stock for each outstanding share Class and Class common stock (the Reclassification). Following our announcement the Reclassification, beginning April , , multiple purported class action lawsuits were filed behalf our stockholders the Delaware Court Chancery against , certain our board directors, and Mark Zuckerberg. The lawsuits have been consolidated under the caption Facebook, Inc. Class Reclassification Litig. , . . -VCL, and the consolidated complaint generally alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties connection with the Reclassification. Among other remedies, these lawsuits seek enjoin the Reclassification well unspecified money damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. believe that the lawsuits are without merit and intend vigorously defend against all claims asserted. addition, are also currently parties multiple other lawsuits related our products, including intellectual property lawsuits well class action lawsuits brought users and marketers. Among these matters, the ZeniMax Media Inc. . Oculus Inc. trial was held January the . District Court for the Northern District Texas. the ZeniMax case, the plaintiff asserted number claims, against and certain individuals, including trade secret misappropriation, copyright infringement, breach contract, tortious interference with contract, unfair competition, unjust enrichment, trademark infringement, and false designation. The plaintiff was seeking actual damages $ billion, punitive damages $ billion, and equitable relief, including injunction. February , , the jury reached verdict favor the plaintiff claims related copyright infringement, breach contract, trademark infringement and false designation, and found for the defendants all other claims. The amount damages awarded the jury was $ million the aggregate. believe have multiple grounds appeal this result and intend vigorously pursue such appeals. are also involved other claims, government and regulatory investigations, and proceedings arising from the ordinary course our business, and may the future subject additional lawsuits and disputes. ", 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\' Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities. Market Information for Common Stock Our Class common stock has been listed the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol " " since May , . Prior that time, there was public market for our stock. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low intra-day sales prices per share for our Class common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market. High Low High Low First Quarter $ $ $ $ Second Quarter $ $ $ $ Third Quarter $ $ $ $ Fourth Quarter $ $ $ $ Our Class common stock not listed nor traded any stock exchange. Holders Record December , , there were , stockholders record our Class common stock, and the closing price our Class common stock was $ per share reported the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Because many our shares Class common stock are held brokers and other institutions behalf stockholders, are unable estimate the total number stockholders represented these record holders. December , , there were stockholders record our Class common stock. Dividend Policy have never declared paid any cash dividend our common stock. intend retain any future earnings and not expect pay cash dividends the foreseeable future. Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers have share repurchase activity for the three months ended December , . November , our board directors authorized $ billion share repurchase program our Class common stock commencing and does not have expiration date. The timing and actual number shares repurchased depend variety factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions including through the use trading plans intended qualify under Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act). Recent Sale Unregistered Securities and Use Proceeds Recent Sale Unregistered Securities None. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not deemed "soliciting material" "filed" with the SEC for purposes Section the Exchange Act, otherwise subject the liabilities under that Section, and shall not deemed incorporated reference into any filing Facebook, Inc. under the Securities Act the Exchange Act. The following graph shows comparison from May , (the date our Class common stock commenced trading the NASDAQ Global Select Market) through December , the cumulative total return for our Class common stock, the Standard & Poor\' Stock Index ( & Index) and the Nasdaq Composite Index (NASDAQ Composite). The graph assumes that $ was invested the market close May , the Class common stock Facebook, Inc., the & Index and the NASDAQ Composite and data for the & Index and the NASDAQ Composite assumes reinvestments gross dividends. The stock price performance the following graph not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information required this item with respect our equity compensation plans incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data. You should read the following selected consolidated financial data conjunction with Part , Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations," and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . The consolidated statements income data for each the years ended December , , , and and the consolidated balance sheets data December , and are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . The consolidated statements income data for the years ended December , and and the consolidated balance sheets data December , , , and are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, except otherwise noted, that are not included this Annual Report Form - . Our historical results are not necessarily indicative our results any future period. Year Ended December , ( ) ( millions, except per share data) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total costs and expenses ( ) , , , , , Income from operations , , , , Income before provision for income taxes , , , , Net income , , , , Net income attributable Class and Class common stockholders , , , , Earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ ( ) the fourth quarter , elected early adopt Accounting Standards Update . - , Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic ): Improvement Employee Share-based Payment Accounting (ASU - ) which requires , among other items, record excess tax benefits reduction the provision for income taxes the income statements, whereas they were previously recognized equity. are required reflect any adoption adjustments January , , the beginning the annual period that includes the interim period adoption. such, certain consolidated statements income data for the year ended December , included the impact the ASU - adoption. See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements for additional information related this adoption. ( ) Total costs and expenses include $ billion , $ billion , $ billion , $ million, and $ billion share-based compensation for the years ended December , , , , , and , respectively. December , ( ) ( millions) Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Working capital ( ) , , , , , Property and equipment, net , , , , , Total assets ( ) , , , , , Capital lease obligations — Long-term debt — — — — , Total liabilities ( ) , , , , , Additional paid- capital , , , , , Total stockholders\' equity , , , , , ( ) Certain consolidated balance sheets data December , included the impact the ASU - which was early adopted , including the net cumulative-effect adjustment $ billion increase retained earnings which was recorded January , , mostly related the recognition the previously unrecognized excess tax benefits using the modified retrospective method. See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements for additional information related this adoption. ( ) , early adopted Accounting Standards Update . - , Income Taxes (Topic ): Balance Sheet Classification Deferred Taxes (ASU - ) retrospectively and reclassified all our current deferred tax assets noncurrent deferred tax assets our consolidated balance sheets data for all periods presented. result the reclassifications, certain noncurrent deferred tax liabilities December , , , and were netted with noncurrent deferred tax assets. Free Cash Flow addition other financial measures presented accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), monitor free cash flow (FCF) non-GAAP measure manage our business, make planning decisions, evaluate our performance, and allocate resources. define FCF net cash provided operating activities reduced purchases property and equipment and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. believe that FCF one the key financial indicators our business performance over the long term and provides useful information regarding how cash provided operating activities compares the property and equipment investments required maintain and grow our business. have chosen subtract both purchases property and equipment and property and equipment acquired under capital leases our calculation FCF because believe that these two items collectively represent the amount property and equipment need procure support our business, regardless whether finance such property equipment with capital lease. The market for financing servers and other technical equipment dynamic and expect our use capital leases could vary significantly from year year. have chosen our definition for FCF because believe that this methodology can provide useful supplemental information help investors better understand underlying trends our business. use FCF discussions with our senior management and board directors. FCF has limitations analytical tool, and you should not consider isolation substitute for analysis other GAAP financial measures, such net cash provided operating activities. Some the limitations FCF are: • FCF does not reflect our future contractual commitments; and • other companies our industry present similarly titled measures differently than , limiting their usefulness comparative measures. Management compensates for the inherent limitations associated with using the FCF measure through disclosure such limitations, presentation our financial statements accordance with GAAP, and reconciliation FCF the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided operating activities, presented below. The following reconciliation FCF the most comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided operating activities: Year Ended December , ( millions) Net cash provided operating activities ( ) ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases — — — ( ) ( ) Free cash flow ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Upon adoption ASU - , excess tax benefits from share-based award activity now presented operating activity which adopted retrospective basis. Therefore, net cash provided operating activities and free cash flow for the years ended December , , , and increased $ billion, $ billion, $ million and $ billion, respectively. See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements for additional information related this adoption. ( ) For the year ended December , , net cash provided operating activities was reduced $ million income tax refundable from income tax loss carrybacks due the recognition tax benefits related share-based compensation from restricted stock units granted prior January , . received substantially all this refund which increased our net cash provided operating activities and FCF for the year ended December , . ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations You should read the following discussion our financial condition and results operations conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . addition our historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause contribute these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere this Annual Report Form - , particularly Part , Item , "Risk Factors." For discussion limitations the measurement certain our user metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations Key Metrics and Other Data" this Annual Report Form - . Certain revenue information the section entitled " — Revenue — Foreign Exchange Impact Revenue" presented constant currency basis. This information non-GAAP financial measure. calculate revenue constant currency basis, translated revenue for the full year using monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the . dollar. This non-GAAP financial measure not intended considered isolation substitute for, superior , financial information prepared and presented accordance with GAAP. This measure may different from non-GAAP financial measures used other companies, limiting its usefulness for comparison purposes. Moreover, presentation revenue constant currency basis provided for year-over-year comparison purposes, and investors should cautioned that the effect changing foreign currency exchange rates has actual effect our operating results. believe this non-GAAP financial measure provides investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance our business, enable comparison financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent business performance, and allows for greater transparency with respect key metrics used management operating our business. Executive Overview Full Year Results Our key user metrics and financial results for are follows: User growth: • Daily active users (DAUs) were billion average for December , increase % year-over-year. • Monthly active users (MAUs) were billion December , , increase % year-over-year. Financial results: • Revenue was $ billion , % year-over-year, and revenue was $ billion , % year-over-year. • Total costs and expenses were $ billion *. • Income from operations was $ billion *. • Net income was $ billion * with diluted earnings per share $ *. • Capital expenditures were $ billion . • Effective tax rate was % *. • Cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $ billion December , . • Headcount was , December , . * the fourth quarter , elected early adopt Accounting Standards Update . - , Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic ): Improvement Employee Share-based Payment Accounting (ASU - ) which required reflect any adoption adjustments January , , the beginning the annual period that includes the interim period adoption. such, certain full year financial results data above included the impacts the ASU - adoption. See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements for additional information related this adoption. , continued make progress our three main revenue growth priorities: ( ) continuing capitalize the shift mobile, ( ) growing the number marketers using our products, and (iii) making our ads more relevant and effective through continued adoption newer formats and tools for marketers. continued invest, based our roadmap, : ( ) our most developed ecosystem, the Facebook app and platform well video, ( ) driving growth and building ecosystems around our products and features that already have significant user bases, such Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp, and (iii) long-term technology initiatives that believe will further our mission connect the world, such virtual reality and artificial intelligence. intend continue invest based this roadmap and expect these investments and our increasingly global scale will drive significant overall year-over-year expense growth compared . addition, anticipate our expenses will continue grow execute priorities such ( ) hiring top engineering talent, ( ) investing research and development, content, and sales and marketing efforts, and (iii) expanding our data center capacity and office facilities support our rapid growth. Trends Our User Metrics The numbers for our key metrics, our DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), not include Instagram, WhatsApp, Oculus users unless they would otherwise qualify such users, respectively, based their other activities Facebook. addition, other user engagement metrics not include Instagram, WhatsApp, Oculus unless otherwise specifically stated. Trends the number users affect our revenue and financial results influencing the number ads are able show, the value our ads marketers, the volume Payments transactions, well our expenses and capital expenditures. Substantially all our daily and monthly active users ( defined below) access Facebook mobile devices. • Daily Active Users (DAUs). define daily active user registered Facebook user who logged and visited Facebook through our website mobile device, used our Messenger application (and also registered Facebook user), given day. view DAUs, and DAUs percentage MAUs, measures user engagement. Note: For purposes reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU geographic region, Europe includes all users Russia and Turkey and Rest World includes all users Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. Worldwide DAUs increased % billion average during December from billion during December . experienced growth DAUs across major markets, including India, Indonesia, and Brazil. • Monthly Active Users (MAUs). define monthly active user registered Facebook user who logged and visited Facebook through our website mobile device, used our Messenger application (and also registered Facebook user), the last days the date measurement. MAUs are measure the size our global active user community. December , , had billion MAUs, increase % from December , . Users India, Indonesia, and Brazil represented key sources growth , relative the same period . Trends Our Monetization User Geography calculate our revenue user geography based our estimate the geography which impressions are delivered, virtual and digital goods are purchased virtual reality platform devices are shipped. define ARPU our total revenue given geography during given quarter, divided the average the number MAUs the geography the beginning and end the quarter. While ARPU includes all sources revenue, the number MAUs used this calculation only includes users Facebook and Messenger described the definition MAU above. The geography our users affects our revenue and financial results because currently monetize users different geographies different average rates. Our revenue and ARPU regions such United States & Canada and Europe are relatively higher primarily due the size and maturity those online and mobile advertising markets. For example, ARPU the United States & Canada region was more than eight times higher than the Asia-Pacific region. Note: Our revenue user geography the charts above geographically apportioned based our estimation the geographic location our users when they perform revenue-generating activity. This allocation differs from our revenue geography disclosure our consolidated financial statements where revenue geographically apportioned based the location the marketer developer. discovered error the algorithm used attribute our revenue user geography late . While this issue did not affect our overall worldwide revenue, did affect our attribution revenue different geographic regions. The fourth quarter revenue user geography and ARPU amounts for all regions were adjusted reflect this reclassification. For , worldwide ARPU was $ , increase % from . Over this period, ARPU increased % United States & Canada, % Europe, % Asia-Pacific, and % Rest World. addition, user growth was more rapid geographies with relatively lower ARPU, such Asia-Pacific and Rest World. expect that user growth the future will primarily concentrated those regions where ARPU relatively lower, such that worldwide ARPU may continue increase slower rate relative ARPU any geographic region, potentially decrease even ARPU increases each geographic region. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation these consolidated financial statements requires make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. evaluate our estimates and assumptions ongoing basis. Our estimates are based historical experience and various other assumptions that believe reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. accounting policy deemed critical requires accounting estimate made based assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain the time the estimate made, different estimates reasonably could have been used, changes the estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition for payments and other fees, income taxes, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and business combinations and valuation goodwill and other acquired intangible assets have the greatest potential impact our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, consider these our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information all our significant accounting policies, see Note our accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . Income Taxes are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties the application accounting principles and complex tax laws. record provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, well for loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected apply taxable income for the years which those tax assets and liabilities are expected realized settled. record valuation allowance reduce our deferred tax assets the net amount that believe more likely than not realized. recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only believe that more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities based the technical merits the position. These uncertain tax positions include our estimates for transfer pricing that have been developed based upon analyses appropriate arms-length prices. Similarly, our estimates related uncertain tax positions concerning research tax credits are based assessment whether our available documentation corroborating the nature our activities supporting the tax credits will sufficient. Although believe that have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions (including net interest and penalties), can provide assurance that the final tax outcome these matters will not materially different. make adjustments these reserves accordance with the income tax accounting guidance when facts and circumstances change, such the closing tax audit the refinement estimate. the extent that the final tax outcome these matters different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes the period which such determination made, and could have material impact our financial condition and operating results. Share-based Compensation account for share-based employee compensation plans under the fair value recognition and measurement provisions accordance with applicable accounting standards, which require all share-based payments employees, including grants stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs), measured based the grant date fair value the awards, with the resulting expense generally recognized straight-line basis over the period during which the employee required perform service exchange for the award. elected early adopt ASU - the fourth quarter , which among other items, provides accounting policy election account for forfeitures they occur, rather than account for them based estimate expected forfeitures. elected account for forfeitures they occur and therefore, share-based compensation expense for the year ended December , has been calculated based actual forfeitures our consolidated statements income, rather than our previous approach which was net estimated forfeitures. The net cumulative effect this change was recognized $ million increase paid- capital January , . Share-based compensation expense for the years ended December , and were recorded net estimated forfeitures, which were based historical forfeitures and adjusted reflect changes facts and circumstances, any. have historically issued unvested restricted shares employee stockholders certain acquired companies. these awards are generally subject continued post-acquisition employment, have accounted for them post-acquisition share-based compensation expense. recognize compensation expense equal the grant date fair value the common stock straight-line basis over the period during which the employee required perform service exchange for the award. Loss Contingencies are involved various lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings that arise the ordinary course business. Certain these matters include speculative claims for substantial indeterminate amounts damages. record liability when believe that both probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. Significant judgment required determine both probability and the estimated amount. review these provisions least quarterly and adjust these provisions accordingly reflect the impact negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice legal counsel, and updated information. believe that the amount estimable range reasonably possible loss, will not, either individually the aggregate, have material adverse effect our business, consolidated financial position, results operations, cash flows with respect loss contingencies for legal and other contingencies December , . However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, one more these legal matters were resolved against for amounts excess management\' expectations, our results operations and financial condition, including particular reporting period, could materially adversely affected. Business Combinations and Valuation Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets allocate the fair value purchase consideration the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based their estimated fair values. The excess the fair value purchase consideration over the fair values these identifiable assets and liabilities recorded goodwill. Such valuations require management make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect intangible assets. Significant estimates valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited , future expected cash flows from acquired users, acquired technology, and trade names from market participant perspective, useful lives, and discount rates. Management’ estimates fair value are based upon assumptions believed reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which one year from the acquisition date, may record adjustments the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset goodwill. Upon the conclusion the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded earnings. review goodwill for impairment least annually more frequently events changes circumstances would more likely than not reduce the fair value our single reporting unit below its carrying value. December , , impairment goodwill has been identified. Acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. evaluate the recoverability our intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events circumstances indicate that the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. The evaluation performed the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent the cash flows other assets and liabilities. Recoverability these assets measured comparison the carrying amounts the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such review indicates that the carrying amount property and equipment and intangible assets not recoverable, the carrying amount such assets reduced fair value. have not recorded any significant impairment charges during the years presented. addition the recoverability assessment, routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives our finite-lived intangible assets. reduce the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance would amortized over the revised estimated useful life. Components Results Operations Revenue Advertising. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising. Our advertising revenue generated displaying products Facebook, Instagram, and third-party affiliated websites mobile applications. Marketers pay for products either directly through their relationships with advertising agencies, based the number clicks made people, the number actions taken people, the number impressions delivered. recognize revenue from the delivery click-based ads the period which person clicks the content, and action-based ads the period which person takes the action the marketer contracted for. recognize revenue from the display impression-based ads the contracted period which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when displayed people. The number ads show subject methodological changes continue evolve our ads business and the structure our ads products. calculate price per total revenue divided the number ads delivered, representing the effective price paid per impression marketer regardless their desired objective such impression, click, action. For advertising revenue arrangements where are not the primary obligor, recognize revenue net basis. Payments and other fees. enable Payments from people purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers. People can transact and make payments the Facebook website using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards, other methods. receive fee from developers when people make purchases these applications using our Payments infrastructure. recognize revenue net amounts remitted our developers. have mandated the use our Payments infrastructure for game applications Facebook, and fees related Payments are generated almost exclusively from games. Our other fees revenue, which has not been significant recent periods, consists primarily revenue from the delivery virtual reality platform devices and related platform sales, and our serving and measurement products. Cost Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost revenue. Our cost revenue consists primarily expenses associated with the delivery and distribution our products. These include expenses related the operation our data centers, such facility and server equipment depreciation, salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for employees our operations teams, and energy and bandwidth costs. Cost revenue also includes credit card and other transaction fees related processing customer transactions, amortization intangible assets, costs associated with data partner arrangements, and cost virtual reality platform device inventory sold. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily share-based compensation, salaries, and benefits for employees our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for building new products well improving existing products. expense all our research and development costs they are incurred. Marketing and sales. Our marketing and sales expenses consist salaries, share-based compensation, and benefits for our employees engaged sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer service functions. Our marketing and sales expenses also include marketing and promotional expenditures, well amortization intangible assets. General and administrative. The majority our general and administrative expenses consist salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for certain our executives well our legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications and policy, and other administrative employees. addition, general and administrative expenses include professional and legal services. Results Operations The following tables set forth our consolidated statements income data, including certain income data for the year ended December , that reflects the impacts the early adoption ASU - : Year Ended December , ( millions) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Marketing and sales , , , General and administrative , , Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , , Interest and other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Year Ended December , ( millions) Cost revenue $ $ $ Research and development , , , Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , The following tables set forth our consolidated statements income data ( percentage revenue): Year Ended December , Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue % % % Costs and expenses: Cost revenue Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses Income from operations Interest and other income/(expense), net — — ( ) Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income % % % Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses ( percentage revenue): Year Ended December , Cost revenue — % — % — % Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense % % % Revenue Year Ended December , % Change % Change ( millions) Advertising $ , $ , $ , % % Payments and other fees ( )% ( )% Total revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Compared . Revenue increased $ billion , % , compared . The increase was mostly due increase advertising revenue. The most important factor driving advertising revenue growth was increase revenue from ads News Feed. For , estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately % total advertising revenue, compared with approximately % . Factors that influenced our advertising revenue growth included ( ) increase demand for our inventory, part driven increase the number marketers actively advertising Facebook, ( ) increase user growth and engagement, and (iii) increase the number and frequency ads displayed News Feed, well the quality, relevance, and performance those ads. However, anticipate increases the number and frequency ads displayed News Feed will less significant driver our revenue growth the future. compared , the average price per increased % and the number ads delivered increased %. The increase average price per was driven continued mix shift towards greater percentage our ads being shown News Feed while the increase the ads delivered was driven the same factors that influenced our advertising growth. Advertising spending traditionally seasonally strong the fourth quarter each year. believe that this seasonality advertising spending affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect significant growth advertising revenue between the third and fourth quarters and decline advertising spending between the fourth and subsequent first quarters. For instance, our advertising revenue increased %, %, and % between the third and fourth quarters , , and , respectively, while advertising revenue for both the first quarters and declined % compared the fourth quarters and . Payments and other fees revenue decreased $ million , % , compared . The majority the decrease Payments and other fees revenue was due decreased Payments revenue from games played personal computers. anticipate Payments and other fees revenue will continue decline . Compared . Revenue increased $ billion, %, compared . The increase was primarily due increase advertising revenue. The most important factor driving advertising revenue growth was increase revenue from ads News Feed mobile devices. , estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately % total advertising revenue, compared with approximately % . Factors that influenced our mobile advertising revenue growth included ( ) increase demand for our inventory, part driven increase the number marketers actively advertising Facebook, ( ) increase mobile user growth and engagement, and (iii) increase the number and frequency ads displayed News Feed, well the quality, relevance, and performance those ads. compared , the average price per increased % and the number ads delivered decreased %. The increase average price per was driven product change related certain non-News Feed ads during the third quarter , which decreased the number ads displayed but increased the prominence each . Average price per was also driven mix shift towards greater percentage our ads being shown News Feed. The reduction ads delivered was driven factors including the product change described above well the shift usage towards mobile devices where people are shown fewer ads compared personal computers. Payments and other fees revenue decreased $ million, %, compared . The decrease Payments and other fees revenue was result decreased Payments revenue from games played personal computers, partially offset increase other fees revenue related acquisitions closed the second half . customer represented % more total revenue during the years ended December , , , and . Foreign Exchange Impact Revenue The general strengthening the . dollar relative certain foreign currencies from the full year compared the same period had unfavorable impact our revenue. had translated revenue for the full year using the prior year\' monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the . dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $ billion , and $ billion , respectively. Using these constant rates, revenue and advertising revenue would have been $ million and $ million higher than actual revenue and advertising revenue, respectively, for the full year . The general strengthening the . dollar relative certain foreign currencies (primarily the Euro) from the full year the same period had unfavorable impact our revenue. had translated revenue for the full year using monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the . dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $ billion and $ billion, respectively. Using these constant rates, both revenue and advertising revenue would have been $ billion higher than actual revenue and advertising revenue for the full year . Cost revenue Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Cost revenue $ , $ , $ , % % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . Cost revenue increased $ million , % , compared . The majority the increase was due increase operational expenses related our data centers and technical infrastructure and, lesser extent, higher costs associated with ads payment processing and various partnership agreements. Compared . Cost revenue increased $ million, %, compared . The increase was primarily due increase operational expenses related our data centers and technical infrastructure, compared . Amortization our intangible assets also increased $ million compared , mostly due the full year impact acquisitions completed the second half . , anticipate that the cost revenue will increase continue expand our data center capacity and technical infrastructure support user growth, increased user engagement, and the delivery new products and services and, lesser extent, due higher costs associated with ads payment processing and various partnership agreements. Research and development Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Research and development $ , $ , $ , % % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . Research and development expenses increased $ billion , % , compared . The majority the increase was due increase payroll and benefits result % growth employee headcount from December , December , engineering and other technical functions. Additionally, our equipment and related expenses support our research and development efforts increased $ million compared . Compared . Research and development expenses increased $ billion, %, compared . The majority the increase was due increase share-based compensation expense $ billion compared , which reflected the full year impact share-based compensation related the acquisitions completed the second half . addition, other payroll and benefits expense increased result % growth employee headcount from December , December , engineering and other technical functions. , plan continue accelerate the hiring software engineers and other technical employees and increasing our investment support our research and development initiatives. Marketing and sales Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Marketing and sales $ , $ , $ , % % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . Marketing and sales expenses increased $ billion , % , compared . The majority the increase was due payroll and benefits expenses result % increase employee headcount from December , December , our marketing and sales functions, and increases our consulting and other professional service fees. Additionally, our marketing expenses increased $ million , compared . Compared . Marketing and sales expenses increased $ billion, %, compared . The majority the increase was due increases amortization our intangible assets $ million due the full year impact acquisitions completed the second half , and payroll and benefits expenses result % increase employee headcount from December , December , our marketing and sales functions. Additionally, our marketing expenses increased $ million , compared . , plan continue increase our investment and the hiring marketing and sales employees support our marketing, sales, and partnership efforts. General and administrative Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) General and administrative $ , $ , $ % % Percentage revenue % % % Compared . General and administrative expenses increased $ million , % , compared . The majority the increase was due increase payroll and benefits expenses result % increase employee headcount from December , December , general and administrative functions, and lesser extent, higher professional services and legal fees. Compared . General and administrative expenses increased $ million, %, compared . The increase was primarily due increase payroll and benefits expenses result % increase employee headcount from December , December , general and administrative functions, including increase $ million share-based compensation expense , and lesser extent, higher legal and other professional services fees. , plan continue increase general and administrative expenses support overall company growth. Interest and other income/(expense), net Year Ended December , % Change % Change ( millions) Interest income/(expense), net $ $ $ Other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )% % Interest and other income/(expense), net $ $ ( ) $ ( ) % Compared . Interest and other income/(expense), net increased $ million compared . Interest income/(expense), net increased mostly due increases interest income driven higher invested cash balances and interest rates. addition, the majority the decrease other income/(expense), net was due foreign exchange impact resulting from the periodic -measurement our foreign currency balances. Compared . Interest and other income/(expense), net increased $ million, %, compared . Other income/(expense), net increased primarily due decrease foreign exchange losses resulting from the periodic -measurement our foreign currency balances. addition, interest income/(expense), net increased due higher invested cash balances and interest rates. Provision for income taxes Year Ended December , % Change % Change (dollars millions) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , ( )% % Effective tax rate % % % Compared . Our provision for income taxes decreased $ million , % , compared , primarily due the impact the adoption ASU - , and was partially offset increase income before provision for income taxes. Our effective tax rate decreased due more our income before provision for income taxes being earned jurisdictions with tax rate lower than the . statutory rate where have asserted our intention indefinitely reinvest certain those earnings, well due lower increase our unrecognized tax benefit compared and the adoption ASU - effective January , . The adoption ASU - significantly impacts both the timing and method how the tax effects share-based awards are recognized. ASU - requires the income tax effects recognized the provision for income taxes when the awards vest are settled whereas previously such income tax benefits were recognized part additional paid- capital and could not recognized until they were realized through reduction income taxes payable. These combined effects had the impact decreasing our provision for income taxes $ million and our effective tax rate % . Excluding the adoption ASU - , our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate would have been $ billion and %, respectively. July , received Statutory Notice Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries conjunction with the examination the tax year. While the Notice applies only the tax year, the IRS states that will also apply its position for tax years subsequent , which, the IRS prevails its position, could result additional federal tax liability approximately $ billion $ billion excess the originally filed . return, plus interest and any penalties asserted. not agree with the position the IRS and have filed petition the United States Tax Court challenging the Notice. have previously accrued estimated unrecognized tax benefit consistent with the guidance ASC that lower than the potential additional federal tax liability $ $ billion excess the originally filed . return, plus interest and penalties. the IRS prevails the assessment additional tax due based its position, the assessed tax, interest and penalties, any, could have material adverse impact our financial position, results operations, and cash flows. Compared . Our provision for income taxes increased $ million, %, compared , primarily due increase income before provision for income taxes. Our effective tax rate remained flat due increase income subject tax jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the . statutory rate offset increase unrecognized tax benefits. Effective Tax Rate Items. Our effective tax rate differs from the . statutory rate primarily due more our income before provision for income taxes being earned jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the . statutory rate where have the asserted our intention indefinitely reinvest those earnings and the recognition certain tax benefits from share-based award activities after the adoption ASU - . Our effective tax rate the future will depend the mix our income before provision for income taxes earned jurisdictions with tax rate lower than the . statutory rate where have the ability and intent indefinitely reinvest those earnings, well number other factors, including integrating intellectual property from acquisitions, research tax credits, share-based compensation, settlement tax contingency items, and the impact new legislation. The portion our income before provision for income taxes earned jurisdictions with tax rate lower than the . statutory rate will depend upon the proportion revenue and costs associated with the respective jurisdictions. Our ability assert our intention indefinitely reinvest those future earnings will depend upon the amount, location, and cost deploying those earnings where they are needed the business. Integrating intellectual property from acquisitions into our business generally involves intercompany transactions that have the impact increasing our provision for income taxes. Consequently, our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate may initially increase following acquisition and integration. The magnitude this impact will depend upon the specific type, size, and taxing jurisdictions the intellectual property well the relative contribution income subsequent periods. The accounting for share-based compensation will increase decrease our effective tax rate based upon the difference between our share-based compensation expense and the benefits taken our tax return which depends upon the share price the time employee award vesting. anticipate our annual effective tax rate will lower than . anticipate that more our income before provision for income taxes will earned jurisdictions with tax rate lower than the . statutory rate where intend assert indefinitely reinvest those earnings which expect will result lower effective tax rate for . addition, anticipate that ASU - will further lower our effective tax rate, relative the . statutory rate, our share price remains constant the January , price $ . ASU - requires recognition certain tax benefits discrete basis, anticipate that our effective tax rate will vary from quarter quarter depending our share price each period. our share price remains constant the January , price, anticipate that our effective tax rate will lower the first quarter and increase the remaining quarters throughout the year. Unrecognized Tax Benefits. December , , our net unrecognized tax benefits are $ billion accrued other liabilities and are predominantly accrued for uncertainties related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, which includes licensing intellectual property, providing services and other transactions, well for uncertainties with our research tax credits. The ultimate settlement the liabilities will depend upon resolution tax audits, litigation, events that would otherwise change the assessment such items. Based upon the status litigation described above and the current status tax audits various jurisdictions, believe unlikely that material change our unrecognized tax benefits will occur within the next months. expect continue accrue unrecognized tax benefits for certain recurring tax positions and anticipate that the amount accrued will similar . Absent any unanticipated event, not expect our unrecognized tax benefits will have significant impact our effective tax rate . Quarterly Results Operations Data The following tables set forth our unaudited quarterly consolidated statements income data dollars and percentage total revenue for each the eight quarters the period ended December , . have prepared the quarterly consolidated statements income data basis consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . elected early adopt ASU - the fourth quarter . such, certain consolidated statements income data for the three months ended December , , September , , June , , and March , included the impacts early adoption ASU - . See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - for additional information related this adoption. the opinion management, the financial information reflects all adjustments, consisting only normal recurring adjustments, which consider necessary for fair presentation this data. This information should read conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" this Annual Report Form - . The results historical periods are not necessarily indicative the results operations for any future period. Three Months Ended Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( millions) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue: Advertising $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Payments and other fees Total revenue , , , , , , , , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue , Research and development , , , , , , , , Marketing and sales , General and administrative Total costs and expenses , , , , , , , , Income from operations , , , , , , , Interest and other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) — ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , , , , , , Provision for income taxes Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ $ $ Less: Net income attributable participating securities Net income attributable Class and Class common stockholders $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ $ $ Earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Three Months Ended Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( millions) Cost revenue $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Three Months Ended Dec , Sept , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( percentage total revenue) Consolidated Statements Income Data: Revenue: Advertising % % % % % % % % Payments and other fees Total revenue % % % % % % % % Costs and expenses: Cost revenue Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total costs and expenses Income from operations Interest and other income/(expense), net — — — ( ) — — Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income % % % % % % % % Less: Net income attributable participating securities — — — — — — — — Net income attributable Class and Class common stockholders % % % % % % % % Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Three Months Ended Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , Dec , Sep , Jun , Mar , ( percentage total revenue) Cost revenue — % — % — % — % — % — % % — % Research and development Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense % % % % % % % % Liquidity and Capital Resources Year Ended December , ( millions) Consolidated Statements Cash Flows Data: Net cash provided operating activities ( ) $ , $ , $ , Net cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash used financing activities ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation ( ) , , , ( ) elected early adopt ASU - the fourth quarter . The impacts adoption have been reflected retrospectively certain our consolidated statements cash flows data for all periods presented. Share-based compensation for the year ended December , included the impact the adoption. See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements for additional information related this adoption. Our principal sources liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations. Cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities consist primarily cash deposit with banks, investments money market funds, and investments . government securities, . government agency securities, and corporate debt securities. Cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $ billion December , , increase $ billion from December , , primarily due $ billion cash generated from operations, partially offset $ billion for purchases property and equipment and $ million for principal payments capital lease and other financing obligations. Cash paid for income taxes (net refunds) was $ billion for the year ended December , . December , , our federal net operating loss carryforward was $ billion , although anticipate only relatively small portion this will available offset our federal taxable income . December , , had $ million federal tax credits, which substantial portion will available offset our federal tax liabilities . expect that the amount cash paid for income taxes will significantly increase . May , terminated our undrawn five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility that allowed borrow $ billion and entered into $ billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility ( Facility). Any amounts outstanding under the Facility will due and payable May , . December , , amounts had been drawn down and were compliance with the covenants under this credit facility. November , our board directors authorized $ billion share repurchase program our Class common stock commencing and does not have expiration date. The timing and actual number shares repurchased depend variety factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions including through the use trading plans intended qualify under Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act). December , , $ billion the $ billion cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities was held our foreign subsidiaries. have provided residual taxes jurisdictions where not intend indefinitely reinvest the earnings the local subsidiary. January , began funding withholding taxes due employee equity awards net share settlement, rather than our previous approach requiring employees sell shares our common stock cover taxes upon vesting such awards. expect this net share settlement approach will increase our cash outflows and reduce the number shares that will issued connection with the vesting our employee equity awards. had used the net share settlement approach , our cash outflows would have increased approximately $ billion for the year ended December , , and the number shares Class common stock issued connection with the vesting employee equity awards during this period would have decreased approximately million shares. currently anticipate that our available funds, credit facility, and cash flow from operations will sufficient meet our operational cash needs for the foreseeable future. Cash Provided Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during , mostly consisted net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such share-based compensation expense $ billion and total depreciation and amortization $ billion . The increase cash flow from operating activities during compared , was mostly due increase net income, including the impact ASU - adoption, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, and share-based compensation expense. Cash flow from operating activities during , mostly consisted net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such share-based compensation expense $ billion, total depreciation and amortization $ billion, and tax benefit from share-based award activity $ billion , which had been reclassified from financing activity result ASU - adoption. The increase cash flow from operating activities during compared , was primarily due increase net income, adjusted for share-based compensation expense, and higher income tax payable December , compared . Cash flow from operating activities during , primarily consisted net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such tax benefit from share-based award activity $ billion , which had been reclassified from financing activity result ASU - adoption, share-based compensation expense $ billion and total depreciation and amortization $ billion. The cash flow from operating activities during compared increased mainly due increase net income $ billion, adjusted for certain non-cash items described above, partially offset decrease income tax refunds $ million. Cash Used Investing Activities Cash used investing activities was $ billion during , mostly due $ billion for net purchases marketable securities and $ billion for capital expenditures continued invest data centers, servers, office buildings, and network infrastructure. The increase cash used investing activities during compared was mostly due increases capital expenditures and net purchases marketable securities. Cash used investing activities during , primarily resulted from $ billion for net purchases marketable securities and $ billion for capital expenditures continued invest servers, data centers, network infrastructure, and office buildings. The increase cash used investing activities during compared was mainly due increases net purchases marketable securities, partially offset decrease acquisitions businesses and purchases intangible assets. Cash used investing activities during primarily resulted from $ billion for the acquisition businesses and $ billion for capital expenditures related network infrastructure and the construction data centers and office buildings, partially offset $ billion for the net sales and maturities marketable securities. The increase cash used investing activities during compared was mainly due increases acquisitions businesses and purchases intangible assets, and capital expenditures, partially offset net sales marketable securities. anticipate making capital expenditures approximately $ billion $ billion. Cash Used Financing Activities Cash used financing activities during , mostly consisted principal payments capital lease and other financing obligations. The increase cash used financing activities was due full repayment our capital lease and other financing obligations . Cash used financing activities during , primarily consisted principal payments capital lease obligations. The decrease cash used financing activities was primarily due lower principal payments related our capital lease transactions. Cash used financing activities during was $ million, which primarily resulted from $ million payments related our capital lease transactions, and $ million other financing activities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements December , . Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist obligations under operating leases for offices, land, facilities, and data centers. The following table summarizes our commitments settle contractual obligations cash December , ( millions): Payment Due Period Total Less than Year - Years - Years More than Years Operating lease obligations $ , $ $ $ $ Financing obligation - building progress - leased facility ( ) — Other contractual commitments ( ) , Total contractual obligations $ , $ , $ $ $ , ( ) Financing obligation - building progress - leased facility represents our commitments lease certain office buildings that are currently under construction. December , , $ million the total obligation was recorded liability and included other liabilities our consolidated balance sheets. See Note the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements for additional information related this financing obligation. ( ) Other contractual commitments primarily relate network infrastructure and our data center operations. addition, our other liabilities include $ billion related uncertain tax positions December , . Due uncertainties the timing the completion tax audits, the timing the resolution these positions uncertain and are unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments individual years beyond months. result, this amount not included the above contractual obligations table. Contingencies are involved claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other legal proceedings. record provision for liability when believe that both probable that liability has been incurred, and that the amount can reasonably estimated. Significant judgment required determine both probability and the estimated amount. Such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and subject significant uncertainties, some which are beyond our control. Should any these estimates and assumptions change prove incorrect, could have material impact our results operations, financial position, and cash flows. See Note — Commitments and Contingencies and Note — Income Taxes the accompanying notes our consolidated financial statements included Part , Item , "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part , Item , "Legal Proceedings" this Annual Report Form - for additional information regarding these contingencies. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements May , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ) (ASU - ), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. August , the FASB issued ASU . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ): Deferral the Effective Date , which delays the effective date ASU - one year. The FASB also agreed allow entities choose adopt the standard the original effective date. March , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) (ASU - ) which clarifies the implementation guidance principal versus agent considerations. The guidance includes indicators assist entity determining whether controls specified good service before transferred the customers. The new revenue recognition standard will effective for the first quarter , with the option adopt the first quarter . currently anticipate adopting the new standard effective January , . The new standard also permits two methods adoption: retrospectively each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), retrospectively with the cumulative effect initially applying the guidance recognized the date initial application (the modified retrospective method). currently anticipate adopting the standard using the modified retrospective method. While are still the process completing our analysis the impact this guidance will have our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, not expect the impact material. February , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Leases (Topic ) (ASU - ), which generally requires companies recognize operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right- -use assets the balance sheet. This guidance will effective for the first quarter modified retrospective basis and early adoption permitted. are still evaluating the effect that this guidance will have our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. October , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Income Taxes (Topic ): Intra-Entity Transfers Other than Inventory (ASU - ), which requires companies recognize the income-tax consequences intra-entity transfer asset other than inventory. This guidance will effective for the first quarter , with the option adopt the first quarter . currently anticipate adopting the new standard effective January , , and not expect the standard have material impact our consolidated financial statements. November , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Statement Cash Flows (Topic ): Restricted Cash (ASU - ), which requires companies include amounts generally described restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents when reconciling beginning- -period and end- -period total amounts shown the statement cash flows. This guidance will effective for the first quarter and early adoption permitted. are still evaluating the effect that this guidance will have our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk are exposed market risks, including changes foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and inflation. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk have foreign currency risks related our revenue and operating expenses denominated currencies other than the . dollar, primarily the Euro. general, are net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, have negatively affected our revenue and other operating results expressed . dollars. have experienced and will continue experience fluctuations our net income result transaction gains losses related revaluing certain current asset and current liability balances that are denominated currencies other than the functional currency the entities which they are recorded. this time have not entered into, but the future may enter into, derivatives other financial instruments attempt hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. difficult predict the effect hedging activities would have our results operations. recognized foreign currency losses $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and , respectively. Interest Rate Sensitivity Our exposure changes interest rates relates primarily interest earned and market value our cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities consist cash, certificates deposit, time deposits, money market funds, . government securities, . government agency securities, and corporate debt securities . Our investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, and the market value those securities. hypothetical basis point increase interest rates would have resulted decrease $ million and $ million the market value our available-for-sale debt securities December , and December , , respectively. Any realized gains losses resulting from such interest rate changes would only occur sold the investments prior maturity. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data FACEBOOK, INC. INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements: The supplementary financial information required this Item , included Part , Item under the caption "Quarterly Results Operations Data," which incorporated herein reference. Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Facebook, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Facebook, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements income, comprehensive income, stockholders\' equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Facebook, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Facebook, Inc.\' internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for share-based payments employees result the adoption the amendments the FASB Accounting Standards Codification resulting from Accounting Standards Update . - , “Improvements Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,” effective January , . / / Ernst & Young LLP San Francisco, California February , Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Stockholders Facebook, Inc. have audited Facebook, Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the COSO criteria). Facebook, Inc.’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Facebook, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Facebook, Inc. and our report dated February , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Francisco, California February , FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except for number shares and par value) December , Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, net allowances for doubtful accounts $ and $ December , and December , , respectively , , Prepaid expenses and other current assets Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Intangible assets, net , , Goodwill , , Other assets , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\' equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ $ Partners payable Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Deferred revenue and deposits Current portion capital lease obligations — Total current liabilities , , Capital lease obligations, less current portion — Other liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\' equity: Common stock, $ par value; , million Class shares authorized, , million and , million shares issued and outstanding, including million and million outstanding shares subject repurchase, December , and December , , respectively; , million Class shares authorized, million and million shares issued and outstanding, including million and million outstanding shares subject repurchase, December , and December , , respectively — — Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive loss ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Total stockholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\' equity $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS INCOME ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended December , Revenue $ , $ , $ , Costs and expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Marketing and sales , , , General and administrative , , Total costs and expenses , , , Income from operations , , , Interest and other income/(expense), net ( ) ( ) Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Less: Net income attributable participating securities Net income attributable Class and Class common stockholders $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares used compute earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Share-based compensation expense included costs and expenses: Cost revenue $ $ $ Research and development , , , Marketing and sales General and administrative Total share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive loss: Change foreign currency translation adjustment, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale investments and other, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions) Class and Class Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income Retained Earnings Total Stockholders\' Equity Shares Par Value Balances December , , $ — $ , $ $ , $ , Issuance common stock for cash upon exercise stock options — — — Issuance common stock related acquisitions — , — — , Issuance common stock for settlement RSUs — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement ( ) — ( ) — — ( ) Share-based compensation, related employee share-based awards — — , — — , Tax benefit from share-based award activity — — , — — , Other comprehensive loss — — — ( ) — ( ) Net income — — — — , , Balances December , , — , ( ) , , Issuance common stock for cash upon exercise stock options — — — — — Issuance common stock for settlement RSUs — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement — — ( ) — — ( ) Share-based compensation, related employee share-based awards — — , — — , Tax benefit from share-based award activity — — , — — , Other comprehensive loss — — — ( ) — ( ) Net income — — — — , , Balances December , , — , ( ) , , Cumulative-effect adjustment from adoption ASU - — — — , , Issuance common stock for cash upon exercise stock options — — — Issuance common stock related acquisitions — — — Issuance common stock for settlement RSUs — — — — — Shares withheld related net share settlement — — ( ) — — ( ) Share-based compensation, related employee share-based awards — — , — — , Other comprehensive loss — — — ( ) — ( ) Net income — — — — , , Balances December , , $ — $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Cash flows from operating activities Net income $ , $ , $ , Adjustments reconcile net income net cash provided operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation , , , Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Tax benefit from share-based award activity — , , Other ( ) Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( ) ( ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) ( ) Accounts payable Partners payable ( ) Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , Deferred revenue and deposits ( ) Other liabilities , , Net cash provided operating activities , , , Cash flows from investing activities Purchases property and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Sales marketable securities , , , Maturities marketable securities , , , Acquisitions businesses, net cash acquired, and purchases intangible assets ( ) ( ) ( , ) Change restricted cash and deposits ( ) Other investing activities, net — — ( ) Net cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cash flows from financing activities Principal payments capital lease and other financing obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Other financing activities, net ( ) ( ) Net cash used financing activities ( ) ( ) ( ) Effect exchange rate changes cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Net increase cash and cash equivalents , Cash and cash equivalents beginning period , , , Cash and cash equivalents end period $ , $ , $ , See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , Supplemental cash flow data Cash paid during the period for: Interest $ $ $ Income taxes, net $ , $ $ Non-cash investing and financing activities: Net change accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and other liabilities related property and equipment additions $ $ $ Fair value shares issued related acquisitions businesses $ — $ — $ , Promissory note payable issued connection with acquisition $ — $ $ — Settlement contingent consideration liability $ $ — $ — See Accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. FACEBOOK, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note . Summary Significant Accounting Policies Organization and Description Business Facebook was incorporated Delaware July . Our mission give people the power share and make the world more open and connected. generate substantially all our revenue from advertising. Basis Presentation prepared the consolidated financial statements accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Facebook, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates Conformity with GAAP requires the use estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates form the basis for judgments make about the carrying values our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. base our estimates and judgments historical information and various other assumptions that believe are reasonable under the circumstances. GAAP requires make estimates and judgments several areas, including, but not limited , those related revenue recognition, collectability accounts receivable, contingent liabilities, fair value financial instruments, fair value acquired intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives intangible assets and property and equipment, and income taxes. These estimates are based management\' knowledge about current events and expectations about actions may undertake the future. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue once all the following criteria have been met: • persuasive evidence arrangement exists; • delivery our obligations our customer has occurred; • the price fixed determinable; and • collectability the related receivable reasonably assured. Revenue for the years ended December , , , and consists the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Advertising $ , $ , $ , Payments and other fees Total revenue $ , $ , $ , Advertising Advertising revenue generated displaying products the Facebook properties, and third-party affiliated websites mobile applications. The arrangements are evidenced either online acceptance terms and conditions contracts that stipulate the types advertising delivered, the timing and the pricing. Marketers pay for products either directly through their relationships with advertising agencies, based the number clicks made our users, the number actions taken our users, the number impressions delivered. The typical term advertising arrangement less than one month with billing generally occurring after the delivery the advertisement. recognize revenue from the delivery click-based ads the period which user clicks the content, and action-based ads the period which user takes the action the marketer contracted for. recognize revenue from the display impression-based ads the contracted period which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when displayed users. For advertising revenue arrangements where are not the primary obligor, recognize revenue net basis. Payments and Other Fees enable Payments from people purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers. People can transact and make payments the Facebook website using debit cards and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards, other methods. When person engages payment transaction for the purchase virtual digital good from developer, remit the developer amount that based the total amount the transaction less the processing fee that charge the developer. The price the purchase amount that solely determined the developer. Our revenue the net amount the transaction, representing our processing fee for the service performed. record revenue net basis not consider ourselves the principal the sale the virtual digital good the person. Additionally, record all Payments revenue the time the purchase the related virtual goods, net estimated refunds chargebacks. Other fees, which includes the delivery virtual reality platform devices and related platform sales, and our serving and measurement products, were not material all periods presented our financial statements. Revenue recognized net applicable sales and other taxes. Cost Revenue Our cost revenue consists primarily expenses associated with the delivery and distribution our products. These include expenses related the operation our data centers, such facility and server equipment depreciation, salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for employees our operations teams, and energy and bandwidth costs. Cost revenue also includes credit card and other transaction fees related processing customer transactions, amortization intangible assets, costs associated with data partner arrangements, and cost virtual reality platform device inventory sold. Share-based Compensation account for share-based employee compensation plans under the fair value recognition and measurement provisions GAAP. Those provisions require all share-based payments employees, including grants stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs), measured based the grant date fair value the awards, with the resulting expense generally recognized straight-line basis our consolidated statements income over the period during which the employee required perform service exchange for the award. The majority our awards are earned over service period four years. the fourth quarter , elected early adopt Accounting Standards Update . - , Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic ): Improvement Employee Share-based Payment Accounting (ASU - ) issued the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which among other items, provides accounting policy election account for forfeitures they occur, rather than account for them based estimate expected forfeitures. elected account for forfeitures they occur and therefore, share-based compensation expense for the year ended December , has been calculated based actual forfeitures our consolidated statements income, rather than our previous approach which was net estimated forfeitures. The net cumulative effect this change increased additional paid- capital January , $ million . Share-based compensation expense for the years ended December , and were recorded net estimated forfeitures, which were based historical forfeitures and adjusted reflect changes facts and circumstances, any. have historically issued unvested restricted shares employee stockholders certain acquired companies. these awards are generally subject continued post-acquisition employment, have accounted for them post-acquisition share-based compensation expense. recognize compensation expense equal the grant date fair value the common stock straight-line basis over the period during which the employee required perform service exchange for the award. Income Taxes recognize income taxes under the asset and liability method. recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the expected future consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities. These differences are measured using the enacted statutory tax rates that are expected apply taxable income for the years which differences are expected reverse. recognize the effect deferred income taxes change tax rates income the period that includes the enactment date. record valuation allowance reduce our deferred tax assets the net amount that believe more likely than not realized. consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels income, expectations and risks associated with estimates future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies assessing the need for valuation allowance. recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only believe that more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities based the technical merits the position. These uncertain tax positions include our estimates for transfer pricing that have been developed based upon analyses appropriate arms-length prices. Similarly, our estimates related uncertain tax positions concerning research tax credits are based assessment whether our available documentation corroborating the nature our activities supporting the tax credits will sufficient. Although believe that have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions (including net interest and penalties), can provide assurance that the final tax outcome these matters will not materially different. make adjustments these reserves when facts and circumstances change, such the closing tax audit the refinement estimate. the extent that the final tax outcome these matters different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes the period which such determination made and could have material impact our financial position and results operations. Advertising Expense Advertising costs are expensed when incurred and are included marketing and sales expenses the accompanying consolidated statements income. incurred advertising expenses $ million , $ million , and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Cash and Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist cash deposit with banks and investments money market funds with maturities days less from the date purchase. hold investments marketable securities, consisting . government securities, . government agency securities, and corporate debt securities . classify our marketable securities available-for-sale investments our current assets because they represent investments cash available for current operations. Our available-for-sale investments are carried estimated fair value with any unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, included accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income stockholders\' equity. Unrealized losses are charged against interest and other income/(expense), net when decline fair value determined other-than-temporary. have not recorded any such impairment charge the periods presented. determine realized gains losses sale marketable securities specific identification method, and record such gains losses interest and other income/(expense), net. classify certain restricted cash balances within prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets the accompanying consolidated balance sheets based upon the term the remaining restrictions. Fair Value Financial Instruments apply fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. define fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required recorded fair value, consider the principal most advantageous market which would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability, such risks inherent valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value estimated applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level -Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level -Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level -Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management\' estimate assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. Our valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and marketable debt securities were derived from quoted market prices alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs. Our valuation technique used measure the fair value our contingent consideration liability prior completion the performance milestones, was based the present value probability-weighted future cash flows related the contingent earn-out criteria and the fair value our common stock each reporting date. Upon completion the performance milestones the second quarter , measure fair value our contingent consideration liability based the fair value our common stock each reporting date. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Accounts receivable are recorded and carried the original invoiced amount less allowance for any potential uncollectible amounts. make estimates for the allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our assessment various factors, including historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality our customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\' ability pay. Property and Equipment Property and equipment, which includes amounts recorded under capital leases, are stated cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets the remaining lease term, whichever shorter. The estimated useful lives property and equipment are described below: Property and Equipment Useful Life Network equipment Three years Buildings Three years Computer software, office equipment and other Two five years Leased equipment and leasehold improvements Lesser estimated useful life remaining lease term Land and assets held within construction progress are not depreciated. Construction progress related the construction development property and equipment that have not yet been placed service for their intended use. The cost maintenance and repairs expensed incurred. When assets are retired otherwise disposed , the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from their respective accounts, and any gain loss such sale disposal reflected income from operations. Lease Obligations enter into lease arrangements for office space, land, facilities, data centers, and equipment under non-cancelable capital and operating leases. Certain the operating lease agreements contain rent holidays, rent escalation provisions, and purchase options. Rent holidays and rent escalation provisions are considered determining the straight-line rent expense recorded over the lease term. The lease term begins the date initial possession the leased property for purposes recognizing lease expense straight-line basis over the term the lease. not assume renewals our determination the lease term unless the renewals are deemed reasonably assured lease inception. record assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred third parties under build- -suit lease arrangements the extent that are involved the construction structural improvements bear construction risk prior commencement lease. Loss Contingencies are involved various lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings that arise the ordinary course business. record liability when believe that both probable that loss has been incurred and the amount can reasonably estimated. Significant judgment required determine both probability and the estimated amount. review these provisions least quarterly and adjust these provisions accordingly reflect the impact negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice legal counsel, and updated information. Business Combinations allocate the fair value purchase consideration the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based their estimated fair values. The excess the fair value purchase consideration over the fair values these identifiable assets and liabilities recorded goodwill. Such valuations require management make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect intangible assets. Significant estimates valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited , future expected cash flows from acquired users, acquired technology, and trade names from market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. Management’ estimates fair value are based upon assumptions believed reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which one year from the acquisition date, may record adjustments the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset goodwill. Upon the conclusion the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded earnings. Long-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets evaluate the recoverability property and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events circumstances indicate that the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. The evaluation performed the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent the cash flows other assets and liabilities. Recoverability these assets measured comparison the carrying amounts the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such review indicates that the carrying amount property and equipment and intangible assets not recoverable, the carrying amount such assets reduced fair value. have not recorded any significant impairment charges during the years presented. review goodwill for impairment least annually more frequently events changes circumstances would more likely than not reduce the fair value our single reporting unit below its carrying value. December , , impairment goodwill has been identified. Acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets related our -process research and development (IPR& ) are capitalized and subject impairment testing until completion abandonment the projects. Upon successful completion each project, make separate determination useful life the acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets and the related amortization recorded expense over the estimated useful life the specific projects. Acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets. routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives property and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets. reduce the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance amortized depreciated over the revised estimated useful life. Deferred Revenue and Deposits Deferred revenue consists billings advance revenue recognition. Deposits relate unused balances held behalf our users. Once this balance utilized user, approximately % this amount would then payable the developer and the balance would recognized revenue. Deferred revenue and deposits consists the following ( millions): December , Deferred revenue $ $ Deposits Total deferred revenue and deposits $ $ Foreign Currency Generally the functional currency our international subsidiaries the local currency. translate the financial statements these subsidiaries . dollars using month-end rates exchange for assets and liabilities, and average rates exchange for revenue, costs, and expenses. Translation gains and losses are recorded accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income component stockholders\' equity. December , and , had cumulative translation loss, net tax $ million and $ million , respectively. Net losses resulting from foreign exchange transactions were $ million , $ million , and $ million for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. These losses were recorded interest and other income/(expense), net our consolidated statements income. Credit Risk and Concentration Our financial instruments that are potentially subject concentrations credit risk consist primarily cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, marketable securities, and accounts receivable. The majority cash equivalents consists short-term money market funds, which are managed reputable financial institutions. Marketable securities consist investments . government securities, . government agency securities, and corporate debt securities . Our investment policy limits investment instruments . government securities, . government agency securities, and corporate debt securities with the main objective preserving capital and maintaining liquidity. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenue earned from customers across different industries and countries. generated % , % , and % our revenue for the years ended December , , , and , respectively, from marketers and developers based the United States, with the majority revenue outside the United States coming from customers located western Europe, China, Canada, and Australia. perform ongoing credit evaluations our customers, and generally not require collateral. maintain allowance for estimated credit losses. During the years ended December , , , and , our bad debt expenses were $ million , $ million , and $ million , respectively. the event that accounts receivable collection cycles deteriorate, our operating results and financial position could adversely affected. customer represented % more total revenue during the years ended December , , , and . Segments Our chief operating decision-maker our Chief Executive Officer who makes resource allocation decisions and assesses performance based financial information presented consolidated basis. There are segment managers who are held accountable the chief operating decision-maker, anyone else, for operations, operating results, and planning for levels components below the consolidated unit level. Accordingly, have determined that have single reportable segment and operating unit structure. Accounting Pronouncements Adopted March , the FASB issued ASU - simplify certain aspects the accounting for share-based payment transactions employees. The new standard requires excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies recorded the statements income component the provision for income taxes when stock awards vest are settled. addition, eliminates the requirement reclassify cash flows related excess tax benefits from operating activities financing activities the consolidated statements cash flows. The standard also provides accounting policy election account for forfeitures they occur, allows withhold more employee’ vesting shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting, and clarifies that all cash payments made tax authorities employee’ behalf for withheld shares should presented financing activity our cash flows statement. The new standard effective for beginning January , , with early adoption permitted. elected early adopt the new guidance the fourth quarter which required reflect any adjustments January , , the beginning the annual period that includes the interim period adoption. Upon adoption, excess tax benefits deficiencies from share-based award activity are reflected the consolidated statements income component the provision for income taxes, whereas they previously were recognized equity. also elected account for forfeitures they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. The adoption ASU - resulted net cumulative-effect adjustment $ billion increase retained earnings January , , mostly related the recognition the previously unrecognized excess tax benefits using the modified retrospective method. The previously unrecognized excess tax effects were recorded reduction tax liability increase deferred tax asset. adopted the aspects the standard affecting the cash flow presentation retrospectively, and accordingly, conform the current year presentation, reclassified $ billion and $ billion excess tax benefits under financing activities operating activities for the years ended December , and , respectively, our consolidated statements cash flows. The presentation requirements for cash flows related employee taxes paid for withheld shares had impact any the periods presented our consolidated statements cash flows since such cash flows have historically been presented financing activity. Adoption the new standard also resulted ( ) reduction our provision for income taxes $ million for the year ended December , , mostly related the recognition excess tax benefits from share-based compensation awards that vested settled , and ( ) adjustments our unaudited selected quarterly data previously reported for fiscal year follows: March , June , September , ( millions) reported adjusted reported adjusted reported adjusted Consolidated Balance Sheets Data: (Unaudited) Other assets $ $ $ $ $ $ Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Common stock and additional paid- capital $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Retained earnings $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Three months ended March , Three months ended June , Three months ended September , ( millions, except percentages and per share amounts) reported adjusted reported adjusted reported adjusted Consolidated Statements Income Data: (Unaudited) Share-based compensation included costs and expenses $ $ $ $ $ $ Total costs and expenses $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Provision for income taxes $ $ $ $ $ $ Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % % % % Earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Basic $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ $ Weighted average shares used compute earnings per share attributable Class and Class common stockholders: Diluted , , , , , , Three months ended March , Six months ended June , Nine months ended September , ( millions) reported adjusted reported adjusted reported adjusted Consolidated Statements Cash Flows Data: (Unaudited) Net cash provided operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) August , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Statement Cash Flows (Topic ) (ASU - ), which addresses eight specific cash flow classification issues reduce diversity practice. This guidance will effective for the first quarter retrospective basis and early adoption permitted. elected early adopt this guidance the third quarter retrospective basis. There was reclassification impact the adoption our consolidated statement cash flows for the years ended December , , and , and such statements have been presented accordance with this new guidance. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted May , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ) (ASU - ), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. August , the FASB issued ASU . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ): Deferral the Effective Date , which delays the effective date ASU - one year. The FASB also agreed allow entities choose adopt the standard the original effective date. March , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) (ASU - ) which clarifies the implementation guidance principal versus agent considerations. The guidance includes indicators assist entity determining whether controls specified good service before transferred the customers. The new revenue recognition standard will effective for the first quarter , with the option adopt the first quarter . currently anticipate adopting the new standard effective January , . The new standard also permits two methods adoption: retrospectively each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), retrospectively with the cumulative effect initially applying the guidance recognized the date initial application (the modified retrospective method). currently anticipate adopting the standard using the modified retrospective method. While are still the process completing our analysis the impact this guidance will have our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, not expect the impact material. February , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Leases (Topic ) (ASU - ), which generally requires companies recognize operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right- -use assets the balance sheet. This guidance will effective for the first quarter modified retrospective basis and early adoption permitted. are still evaluating the effect that this guidance will have our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. October , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Income Taxes (Topic ): Intra-Entity Transfers Other than Inventory (ASU - ), which requires companies recognize the income-tax consequences intra-entity transfer asset other than inventory. This guidance will effective for the first quarter , with the option adopt the first quarter . currently anticipate adopting the new standard effective January , , and not expect the standard have material impact our consolidated financial statements. November , the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update . - , Statement Cash Flows (Topic ): Restricted Cash (ASU - ), which requires companies include amounts generally described restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents when reconciling beginning- -period and end- -period total amounts shown the statement cash flows. This guidance will effective for the first quarter and early adoption permitted. are still evaluating the effect that this guidance will have our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Note . Earnings per Share compute earnings per share (EPS) Class and Class common stock using the two-class method required for participating securities. consider restricted stock awards participating securities because holders such shares have non-forfeitable dividend rights the event our declaration dividend for common shares. Undistributed earnings allocated participating securities are subtracted from net income determining net income attributable common stockholders. Basic EPS computed dividing net income attributable common stockholders the weighted-average number shares our Class and Class common stock outstanding, adjusted for outstanding shares that are subject repurchase. For the calculation diluted EPS, net income attributable common stockholders for basic EPS adjusted the effect dilutive securities, such awards under our equity compensation plans and inducement awards under separate non-plan restricted stock unit (RSU) award agreements. addition, the computation the diluted EPS Class common stock assumes the conversion our Class common stock Class common stock, while the diluted EPS Class common stock does not assume the conversion those shares Class common stock. Diluted EPS attributable common stockholders computed dividing the resulting net income attributable common stockholders the weighted-average number fully diluted common shares outstanding. Basic and dilutive securities our basic and diluted EPS calculation for the year ended December , also included the effect earn-out shares which issuance was contingent upon completion certain milestones. The performance milestones related our earn-out shares were completed the second quarter . Basic and dilutive securities our basic and diluted EPS calculation for the years ended December , and excluded the effect these earn-out shares because the milestones were not met December , . Certain RSUs were excluded from the EPS calculation because the impact would anti-dilutive. These excluded RSUs were not material for the years ended December , , , and , respectively. Basic and diluted EPS are the same for each class common stock because they are entitled the same liquidation and dividend rights. The numerators and denominators the basic and diluted EPS computations for our common stock are calculated follows ( millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December , Class Class Class Class Class Class Basic EPS: Numerator Net income $ , $ , $ , $ $ , $ Less: Net income attributable participating securities Net income attributable common stockholders $ , $ , $ , $ $ , $ Denominator Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Less: Shares subject repurchase Number shares used for basic EPS computation , , , Basic EPS $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted EPS: Numerator Net income attributable common stockholders $ , $ , $ , $ $ , $ Reallocation net income attributable participating securities — — — Reallocation net income result conversion Class Class common stock , — — — Reallocation net income Class common stock — — — Net income attributable common stockholders for diluted EPS $ , $ , $ , $ $ , $ Denominator Number shares used for basic EPS computation , , , Conversion Class Class common stock — — — Weighted average effect dilutive securities: Employee stock options RSUs Shares subject repurchase Earn-out shares — — — — Number shares used for diluted EPS computation , , , Diluted EPS $ $ $ $ $ $ Note . Cash and Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities The following table sets forth the cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( millions): December , Cash and cash equivalents: Cash $ , $ , Money market funds , , . government securities , . government agency securities Corporate debt securities — Total cash and cash equivalents , , Marketable securities: . government securities , , . government agency securities , , Corporate debt securities , , Total marketable securities , , Total cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , $ , The gross unrealized gains losses our marketable securities December , and were not significant. addition, the gross unrealized loss that had been continuous loss position for months longer was not significant December , and . December , , considered the decreases market value our marketable securities temporary nature and did not consider any our investments other-than-temporarily impaired. The following table classifies our marketable securities contractual maturities ( millions): December , Due one year $ , $ , Due one five years , , Total $ , $ , Note . Fair Value Measurement The following table summarizes, for assets liabilities measured fair value, the respective fair value and the classification level input within the fair value hierarchy ( millions): Fair Value Measurement Reporting Date Using Description December , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level ) Cash equivalents: Money market funds $ , $ , $ — $ — . government securities , , — — . government agency securities — — Marketable securities: . government securities , , — — . government agency securities , , — — Corporate debt securities , — , — Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ — Accrued expenses and other current liabilities: Contingent consideration liability $ $ — $ $ — Fair Value Measurement Reporting Date Using Description December , Quoted Prices Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level ) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level ) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level Cash equivalents: Money market funds $ , $ , $ — $ — . government securities — — . government agency securities — — Corporate debt securities — — Marketable securities: . government securities , , — — . government agency securities , , — — Corporate debt securities , — , — Total cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ — Other liabilities: Contingent consideration liability $ $ — $ — $ classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within Level Level because use quoted market prices alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs determine their fair value. The performance milestones related our contingent consideration liability were completed the second quarter . Therefore, longer have estimate the fair value our contingent consideration liability based the present value probability-weighted future cash flows which are unobservable inputs that are not supported market activity. such, reclassified our contingent consideration liability from Level Level . During the year ended December , , recognized increase the fair value our contingent liability $ million research and development expense our consolidated statements income, mostly due increase the fair value our common stock and the completion the performance milestones described above. addition, settled portion the contingent liability July and the remaining portion the contingent liability was reclassified accrued expenses and other current liabilities our consolidated balance sheets December , . Note . Property and Equipment Property and equipment consists the following ( millions): December , Land $ $ Buildings , , Leasehold improvements Network equipment , , Computer software, office equipment and other Construction progress , Total , , Less: Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Depreciation expense property and equipment was $ billion , $ billion , and $ million during , , and , respectively. Property and equipment December , and includes $ million and $ million , respectively, acquired under capital lease agreements, which substantial majority, included network equipment. Accumulated depreciation property and equipment acquired under these capital leases was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Construction progress includes costs mostly related construction data centers, network equipment infrastructure support our data centers around the world, and office buildings. The construction office buildings includes leased office spaces for which are considered the owner for accounting purposes. See Note these notes the consolidated financial statements for additional information. interest was capitalized during the years ended December , , and . Note . Goodwill and Intangible Assets During the year ended December , , completed several business acquisitions that were not material our consolidated financial statements, either individually the aggregate. Accordingly, pro forma historical results operations related these business acquisitions during the year ended December , have not been presented. have included the financial results these business acquisitions our consolidated financial statements from their respective dates acquisition. Goodwill generated from all business acquisitions completed during the year ended December , was primarily attributable expected synergies from future growth and potential monetization opportunities. The amount goodwill generated during this period that was deductible for tax purposes was not material. The changes the carrying amount goodwill for the years ended December , and are follows ( millions): Balance December , $ , Goodwill acquired Balance December , $ , Goodwill acquired Effect currency translation adjustment Balance December , $ , Intangible assets consist the following ( millions): December , December , Weighted-Average Remaining Useful Lives ( years) Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Finite-lived intangible assets: Acquired users $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Acquired patents ( ) ( ) Trade names ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Total finite-lived intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Indefinite-lived intangible assets: -process research and development (IPR& ) $ — $ — $ — $ $ — $ Total intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , completed the IPR& and reclassified from indefinite-lived intangible asset acquired technology March . also began amortizing the balance over its estimated useful life. Amortization expense intangible assets for the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million , respectively. December , , expected amortization expense for the unamortized acquired intangible assets for the next five years and thereafter follows ( millions): $ Thereafter Total $ , Note . Liabilities The components accrued expenses and other current liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Accrued compensation and benefits $ $ Accrued property and equipment Promissory note payable — Contingent consideration liability — Other current liabilities Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ , $ , The components other liabilities are follows ( millions): December , Income tax payable $ , $ , Contingent consideration liability — Other liabilities Other liabilities $ , $ , Note . Long-term Debt May , terminated our undrawn five -year senior unsecured revolving credit facility that allowed borrow $ billion and entered into $ billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility ( Facility). Any amounts outstanding under the Facility will due and payable May , . December , , amounts had been drawn down and were compliance with the covenants under the Facility. Note . Commitments and Contingencies Commitments Leases have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain our offices, land, facilities, and data centers with original lease periods expiring between and . are committed pay portion the related actual operating expenses under certain these lease agreements. Certain these arrangements have free rent periods escalating rent payment provisions, and recognize rent expense under such arrangements straight-line basis. The following schedule, years, the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases December , ( millions): Operating Leases Financing obligation, building progress - leased facilities ( ) $ $ — — Thereafter Total minimum lease payments $ , $ ( ) entered into agreements lease office buildings that are under construction. result our involvement during these construction periods, are considered for accounting purposes the owner the construction projects. The above financing obligation, building progress - leased facilities represent the total expected financing and lease obligations associated with these leases and will settled through monthly lease payments the landlords when occupy the office spaces upon completion. This amount includes $ million that included property and equipment, net and other liabilities our consolidated balance sheets December , . Operating lease expense was $ million , $ million , and $ million for the years ended December , , and , respectively. fully repaid all our capital lease obligations during . Other contractual commitments also have $ billion non-cancelable contractual commitments December , , primarily related network infrastructure and our data center operations. These commitments are primarily due within five years . Contingencies Legal Matters Beginning May , , multiple putative class actions, derivative actions, and individual actions were filed state and federal courts the United States and other jurisdictions against , our directors, and certain our officers alleging violation securities laws breach fiduciary duties connection with our initial public offering (IPO) and seeking unspecified damages. believe these lawsuits are without merit, and intend continue vigorously defend them. The vast majority the cases the United States, along with multiple cases filed against The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. and The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (collectively referred herein NASDAQ) alleging technical and other trading-related errors NASDAQ connection with our IPO, were ordered centralized for coordinated consolidated pre-trial proceedings the . District Court for the Southern District New York. series rulings and , the court denied our motion dismiss the consolidated securities class action and granted our motions dismiss the derivative actions against our directors and certain our officers. July , , the court appeals affirmed the dismissal the derivative actions. December , , the court granted plaintiffs\' motion for class certification the consolidated securities action. addition, the events surrounding our IPO became the subject various state and federal government inquiries. May , the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) notified that had terminated its inquiry and that enforcement action had been recommended the SEC. April , , announced proposal create new class non-voting capital stock (Class capital stock) and our intention declare and pay dividend two shares Class capital stock for each outstanding share Class and Class common stock (the Reclassification). Following our announcement the Reclassification, beginning April , , multiple purported class action lawsuits were filed behalf our stockholders the Delaware Court Chancery against , certain our board directors, and Mark Zuckerberg. The lawsuits have been consolidated under the caption Facebook, Inc. Class Reclassification Litig. , . . -VCL, and the consolidated complaint generally alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties connection with the Reclassification. Among other remedies, these lawsuits seek enjoin the Reclassification well unspecified money damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. believe that the lawsuits are without merit and intend vigorously defend against all claims asserted. are also party various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. Among these matters, the ZeniMax Media Inc. . Oculus Inc. trial was held January the . District Court for the Northern District Texas. the ZeniMax case, the plaintiff asserted number claims, against and certain individuals, including trade secret misappropriation, copyright infringement, breach contract, tortious interference with contract, unfair competition, unjust enrichment, trademark infringement, and false designation. The plaintiff was seeking actual damages $ billion , punitive damages $ billion , and equitable relief, including injunction. February , , the jury reached verdict favor the plaintiff claims related copyright infringement, breach contract, trademark infringement and false designation, and found for the defendants all other claims. The amount damages awarded the jury was $ million the aggregate. believe have multiple grounds appeal this result and intend vigorously pursue such appeals. The result the verdict, light appeals and net contractual indemnity rights, was not material our financial results. With respect our other outstanding legal matters, believe that the amount estimable range reasonably possible loss will not, either individually the aggregate, have material adverse effect our business, consolidated financial position, results operations, cash flows. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, one more these legal matters were resolved against for amounts excess management\' expectations, our results operations and financial condition, including particular reporting period, could materially adversely affected. Indemnifications the normal course business, facilitate transactions services and products, have agreed indemnify certain parties with respect certain matters. have agreed hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from breach representations covenants, out intellectual property infringement other claims made third parties. These agreements may limit the time within which indemnification claim can made and the amount the claim. addition, have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers, directors, and certain employees, and our certificate incorporation and bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations. not possible determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each particular agreement. Historically, payments made under these agreements have not had material impact our consolidated financial position, results operations cash flows. our opinion, December , , there was not least reasonable possibility had incurred material loss with respect indemnification such parties. have not recorded any liability for costs related indemnification through December , . Note . Stockholders\' Equity Common Stock Our certificate incorporation authorizes the issuance Class common stock and Class common stock. December , , are authorized issue , million shares Class common stock and , million shares Class common stock, each with par value $ per share. Holders our Class common stock and Class common stock are entitled dividends when, and , declared our board directors, subject the rights the holders all classes stock outstanding having priority rights dividends. December , , did not declare any dividends and our credit facility contains restrictions our ability pay dividends. The holder each share Class common stock entitled one vote, while the holder each share Class common stock entitled ten votes. Shares our Class common stock are convertible into equivalent number shares our Class common stock and generally convert into shares our Class common stock upon transfer. Class common stock and Class common stock are referred common stock throughout the notes these financial statements, unless otherwise noted. December , , there were , million shares and million shares Class common stock and Class common stock, respectively, issued and outstanding. Reclassification April , our board directors approved the Reclassification approving amendments our restated certificate incorporation (the New Certificate) that would, among other things, create non-voting Class capital stock. The Class capital stock will have the same rights and powers, rank equally (including dividends and distributions, mergers similar business combinations, and connection with any liquidation, dissolution winding the corporation), share ratably and identical all other respects and all matters the shares Class and Class common stock, except for voting rights and expressly provided the New Certificate. The New Certificate was approved our stockholders June , . December , , the New Certificate was not yet effective. part the Reclassification, announced that our board directors intends issue two shares the Class capital stock one-time stock dividend for each share Class and Class common stock outstanding. The record and payment dates for this dividend will determined our board directors its discretion and there can assurance the timing such dates. For accounting purposes, expect this dividend will treated stock split the form dividend. Share Repurchase Program November , our board directors authorized $ billion share repurchase program our Class common stock, beginning and which does not have expiration date. The timing and actual number shares repurchased depend variety factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions, including through the use trading plans intended qualify under Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. Share-based Compensation Plans maintain two share-based employee compensation plans: the Equity Incentive Plan ( Plan) and the Stock Plan (collectively, Stock Plans). Our Plan serves the successor our Stock Plan and provides for the issuance incentive and nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, RSUs, performance shares, and stock bonuses qualified employees, directors and consultants. Outstanding awards under the Stock Plan continue subject the terms and conditions the Stock Plan. Our board directors approved the amendment and restatement our Plan (the Amended Plan), which was approved our stockholders and adopted June . initially reserved million shares our Class common stock for issuance under our Plan. Following the date the stock dividend described above, declared and paid, the shares reserved and available for issuance under our Amended Plan will shares the new Class Capital Stock, except for shares reserved for awards outstanding immediately prior the payment the dividend. The number shares reserved for issuance under our Amended Plan increases automatically January each the calendar years during the term the Amended Plan, which will continue through and including April unless terminated earlier our board directors committee thereof, number shares Class capital stock (and prior the date the payment the stock dividend described above, Class common stock) equal the lesser ( ) % the total issued and outstanding shares our Class common stock and Class capital stock the immediately preceding December 31st ( ) number shares determined our board directors. Our board directors elected not increase the number shares reserved for issuance and . addition, shares available for grant under the Stock Plan, which were reserved but not issued, forfeited repurchased their original issue price, subject outstanding awards under the Stock Plan the effective date our IPO, were added the reserves the Amended Plan and shares that are withheld connection with the net settlement RSUs are also added the reserves the Amended Plan. connection with acquisition , granted inducement awards covering aggregate million RSUs earned over service period four years. These awards are excluded from the Stock Plans and are subject the terms, restrictions, and conditions separate non-plan RSU award agreements. The following table summarizes the activities stock option awards under the Stock Plans for the year ended December , : Shares Subject Options Outstanding Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value ( ) ( thousands) ( years) ( millions) Balance December , , $ Stock options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , $ $ Stock options exercisable December , , $ $ ( ) The aggregate intrinsic value calculated the difference between the exercise price the underlying stock option awards and the official closing price our Class common stock $ , reported the NASDAQ Global Select Market December , . There were options granted, forfeited, canceled for the year ended December , . The aggregate intrinsic value the options exercised the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million , respectively. The total grant date fair value stock options vested during the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million , respectively. The following table summarizes additional information regarding outstanding and exercisable options under the Stock Plans December , : Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Exercise Price (Range) Number Shares Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Term Weighted Average Exercise Price Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price ( thousands) ( years) ( thousands) - $ $ , , , , , , $ , $ The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs for the year ended December , : Unvested RSUs ( ) Number Shares Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value ( thousands) Unvested December , , $ Granted , Vested ( , ) Forfeited ( , ) Unvested December , , $ ( ) Unvested shares include inducement awards issued connection with acquisition and are subject the terms, restrictions, and conditions separate non-plan RSU award agreements. The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs that vested during the years ended December , , , and was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , respectively. December , , there was $ billion unrecognized share-based compensation expense, which ( ) $ billion was related RSUs, and ( ) $ million was related restricted shares, shares related our contingent consideration with performance conditions that were met the second quarter but are still subject service condition, and stock options. This unrecognized compensation expense expected recognized over weighted-average period approximately three years . Note . Interest and other income/(expense), net The following table presents the detail interest and other income/(expense), net, for the periods presented ( millions): Year Ended December , Interest expense $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Interest income Foreign currency exchange losses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Interest and other income/(expense), net $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Note . Income Taxes The components income before provision for income taxes for the years ended December , , , and are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Domestic $ , $ , $ , Foreign , , ( ) Income before provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): Year Ended December , Current: Federal $ , $ , $ , State Foreign Total current tax expense , , , Deferred: Federal ( ) ( ) ( ) State ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign ( ) ( ) Total deferred tax benefit ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the . federal statutory income tax rate % our effective tax rate follows ( percentages): Year Ended December , . federal statutory income tax rate % % % State income taxes, net federal benefit Research tax credits ( ) ( ) ( ) Share-based compensation Excess tax benefits related share-based compensation ( ) ( ) — — Effect non- . operations ( ) ( ) ( ) Other Effective tax rate % % % ( ) Due the adoption ASU - , excess tax benefits from share-based award activity for the year ended December , are reflected reduction the provision for income taxes, whereas they previously were recognized equity. See Note these notes the consolidated financial statements for additional information related this adoption. Our deferred tax assets (liabilities) are follows ( millions): December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating loss carryforward $ , $ Tax credit carryforward Share-based compensation Accrued expenses and other liabilities Other Total deferred tax assets , , Less: valuation allowance ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Purchased intangible assets ( ) ( ) Unremitted foreign earnings ( ) ( ) Total deferred tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred tax assets $ $ The valuation allowance was approximately $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, primarily related state tax credits that not believe will ultimately realized. December , , the . federal and state net operating loss carryforwards were $ billion and $ billion , which will begin expire and , respectively, not utilized. have federal and state tax credit carryforwards $ million and $ billion , respectively, which will begin expire and , respectively, not utilized. Utilization our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may subject substantial annual limitations due the ownership change limitations provided the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. Such annual limitations could result the expiration the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before their utilization. The events that may cause ownership changes include, but are not limited , cumulative stock ownership change greater than % over three -year period. Our foreign income before provision for income taxes $ billion resulted certain our foreign jurisdictions moving from position having cumulative losses cumulative earnings. accordance with ASC , have considered the need record deferred taxes related the resulting cumulative unremitted foreign earnings. Our consolidated financial statements provide taxes for estimated tax liabilities $ million that would arise upon repatriation portion these earnings the foreign jurisdictions where not intend indefinitely reinvest those earnings outside the United States. December , , have not provided . taxes cumulative basis foreign earnings subject indefinite reinvestment $ billion . The determination the amount unrecognized deferred tax liability related these earnings not practicable due uncertainties around the timing and amounts our uncertain tax positions. The following table reflects changes the gross unrecognized tax benefits ( millions): Year Ended December , Gross unrecognized tax benefits-beginning period $ , $ , $ , Increases related prior year tax positions Decreases related prior year tax positions ( ) ( ) — Increases related current year tax positions , Decreases related settlements prior year tax positions ( ) ( ) ( ) Gross unrecognized tax benefits-end period $ , $ , $ , During all years presented, recognized interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes the consolidated statements income. The amount interest and penalties accrued December , and was $ million and $ million , respectively. the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits $ billion December , were realized future period, this would result tax benefit $ billion within our provision income taxes such time. are subject taxation the United States and various other state and foreign jurisdictions. The material jurisdictions which are subject potential examination include the United States and Ireland. are under examination the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for our through tax years. Our and subsequent years remain open examination the IRS. Our and subsequent years remain open examination Ireland. July , received Statutory Notice Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries conjunction with the examination the tax year. While the Notice applies only the tax year, the IRS states that will also apply its position for tax years subsequent , which, the IRS prevails its position, could result additional federal tax liability estimated aggregate amount approximately $ billion $ billion excess originally filed . return, plus interest and any penalties asserted. not agree with the position the IRS and have filed petition the United States Tax Court challenging the Notice. have previously accrued estimated unrecognized tax benefit consistent with the guidance ASC that lower than the potential additional federal tax liability $ $ billion excess the originally filed . return, plus interest and penalties. the IRS prevails the assessment additional tax due based its position, the assessed tax, interest and penalties, any, could have material adverse impact our financial position, results operations cash flows. believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations. Although the timing the resolution, settlement, and closure any audits highly uncertain, reasonably possible that the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change the next months. Given the number years remaining that are subject examination, are unable estimate the full range possible adjustments the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits. However, not anticipate significant impact such amounts within the next months. Note . Geographical Information Revenue geography based the billing address the marketer developer. The following tables set forth revenue and property and equipment, net geographic area ( millions): Year Ended December , Revenue: United States $ , $ , $ , Rest the world ( ) , , , Total revenue $ , $ , $ , ( ) individual country, other than disclosed above, exceeded % our total revenue for any period presented. December , Property and equipment, net: United States $ , $ , Rest the world ( ) , , Total property and equipment, net $ , $ , ( ) December , , property and equipment, net Sweden longer exceeded % our total property and equipment, net. December , , such balance was $ million . Other than disclosed, individual country exceeded % our total property and equipment, net for any period presented. Note . Subsequent Event February , , verdict was reached the ZeniMax Media Inc. . Oculus Inc. trial. See Note - Commitments and Contingencies for additional information regarding this matter. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': "Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management, with the participation our chief executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act)), the end the period covered this Annual Report Form - . Based such evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that December , , our disclosure controls and procedures are designed reasonable assurance level and are effective provide reasonable assurance that information are required disclose reports that file submit under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the rules and forms the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our CEO and CFO, appropriate, allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management' Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective December , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with . GAAP. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report with respect our internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Annual Report Form - . Changes Internal Control There were changes our internal control over financial reporting identified management' evaluation pursuant Rules 13a- ( ) 15d- ( ) the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Effectiveness Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance achieving the desired control objectives. addition, the design disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management required apply judgment evaluating the benefits possible controls and procedures relative their costs. ", 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) within days the fiscal year ended December , . Our board directors has adopted Code Conduct applicable all officers, directors and employees, which available our website (investor com) under "Corporate Governance." intend satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item Form - regarding amendment , waiver from, provision our Code Conduct posting such information the website address and location specified above. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this item incorporated reference our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Stockholders filed with the SEC within days the fiscal year ended December , . PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules have filed the following documents part this Form - : . Consolidated Financial Statements: Page . . Financial Statement Schedules All schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, the required information otherwise included. . Exhibits See the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page this Annual Report Form - . ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}