{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related personal computing solutions for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. Substantially all the Company\' net sales over the last five years have been derived from the sale its Apple® Macintosh® line personal computers and related software and peripherals. The Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Business Strategy Digital Hub Apple committed bringing the best possible personal computing experience students, educators, creative professionals, businesses and consumers around the world through its innovative hardware, software, and Internet offerings. The Company believes that personal computing has entered new era which the personal computer functions for both professionals and consumers the digital hub for advanced new digital devices such digital music players, personal digital assistants, cellular phones, digital still and movie cameras, and DVD players, and other electronic devices. The attributes the personal computer, including its ability run complex applications, possess high quality user interface, contain large and relatively inexpensive storage, and easily connect the Internet multiple ways and varying speeds, can individually add value these devices and interconnect them well. Apple the only company the personal computer industry that designs and manufactures the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated applications. Apple ties all together with its innovative industrial design, intuitive ease- -use, and built- networking, graphics, and multimedia capabilities. Thus, the Company uniquely positioned offer digital hub products and solutions. Apple develops products and technologies that adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability. Apple has played role the development, enhancement, promotion, and use numerous these industry standards, many which are discussed below. Retail Since inception its retail initiative , the Company has opened retail stores the United States. The Company has located its stores quality high traffic locations shopping malls and urban shopping districts. Before the end the first quarter , the Company estimates that over % the . population will live within miles one its stores. addition its own hardware and software products, the Company\' retail stores carry inventory variety third-party hardware and software products. One the main goals the retail initiative bring new customers the Company and expand its installed base through sales both first time computer buyers and those switching from other computing platforms. operating its own stores, the Company able better control the customer retail experience. The stores are designed enhance the presentation and marketing personal computing ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' products. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel, provide post sale advice and support, offer wide selection third-party products selected complement the Company\' own products, host training and marketing presentations, and provide certain hardware support services. Additionally, the stores provide forum which the Company able present entire computing solutions users areas such digital photography, digital video, music, children\' software, and home computing. Recent survey results available the Company indicate that approximately % customers buying systems its stores not currently own Macintosh. Education For more than years, the Company has focused educational uses technology. The Company believes that effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation student thought and ideas. The Company\' commitment education encompasses range products and services designed help schools maximize their investments technology. This commitment manifest many the Company\' products and services, including hardware that meets the needs education customers, video editing solutions, wireless networking capabilities, student information systems, and high-quality curriculum and professional development solutions. Creative Professionals Creative professionals constitute one the Company\' most important markets for both hardware and software products. This market also important many third-party developers who provide Macintosh-compatible hardware and software solutions. Creative customers utilize the Company\' products for variety creative activities including digital video and film production and editing; digital video and film special effects, compositing, and titling; digital still photography; graphic design, publishing, and print production; music performance and production; audio production and sound design; and web design, development, and administration. The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions, including servers and desktop and portable Macintosh systems, incorporate the power, expandability, and features desired creative professionals. Additionally, the Company\' client operating system, Mac ® , incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and features developer tools optimize system and application performance when running powerful creative solutions provided the Company third-party developers. The Company also offers various software solutions meet the needs its creative customers, many which are described below. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' geographic operating segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the Company\' Retail segment which operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Non-geographic operating segments include the Company\' subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. and the Company\' Retail segment. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Segment Operating Performance," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and notebook personal computers, related devices and peripherals, networking and connectivity products, and various third-party hardware products. All the Company\' Macintosh products utilize PowerPC® RISC-based microprocessors. The Company\' entire line Macintosh systems, excluding servers, features the Company\' suite software for digital photography, music, and movies. Further information regarding the Company\' products may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Power Mac ® The Power Mac line desktop personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. The current Power Mac line features dual PowerPC processors all models, new high-performance architecture, and certain models Apple\' SuperDrive\x99, combination - DVD- drive that can burn DVDs that can played most consumer DVD players. Xserve \x99 During the third quarter , the Company introduced and shipped Xserve\x99, rack-mount server designed for simple set and remote management. Xserve was designed for intensive applications such digital video, high-resolution digital imagery, and large databases. Xserve delivers high-speed networking, gigaflops computational power, and almost half terabyte hot-plug storage. Server Admin, new services monitoring and remote management tool, allows administrators easily set and manage all key Mac Server network services remotely. Server Monitor, new hardware monitoring tool, allows system administrators remotely monitor one many servers. The Company offers choice services and support programs including -hour onsite response, 24x7 technical support, AppleCare® Service Parts Kits and AppleCare Professional SupportLine and Tools program. PowerBook ® The PowerBook family portable computers designed meet the mobile computing needs professionals and advanced consumer users. The Company\' current PowerBook line, the Titanium PowerBook , was introduced January . The Titanium PowerBook full-featured notebook computer that incorporates PowerPC processors, thin film transistor ("TFT") wide-screen active-matrix displays, integrated wireless capabilities, advanced networking and graphics capabilities, and the latest version, model with built- slot-loading SuperDrive. The Titanium PowerBook -inch thick, weighs little pounds and encased pure-grade titanium body. iMac® The iMac line desktop computers targeted education and consumer markets. The original iMac features innovative industrial design with built- -inch shadow-mask cathode ray tube ("CRT") display, easy Internet access, fan-less operation, and PowerPC processor, making suitable for wide range education and consumer applications. The Company offers its original CRT iMac design suggested retail price under $ , . January , the Company introduced the new iMac featuring innovative industrial design that incorporates adjustable -inch TFT active-matrix flat panel display and ultra-compact base. New iMac models with -inch displays are available three base configurations and feature PowerPC processors, advanced graphics capabilities, and SuperDrive one model for playing and burning custom CDs and DVDs. July , the Company introduced updated version its new iMac that features -inch TFT active-matrix flat panel display, high-end PowerPC processor, and SuperDrive. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' eMac\x99 April , the Company introduced the eMac\x99, new Macintosh desktop system designed for the Company\' education customers. The eMac was made available consumers June . The eMac features PowerPC processor, high resolution -inch flat CRT display, SuperDrive option, and preserves the all- -one compact design the original iMac favored many the Company\' education and consumer customers. iBook ® Designed for the portable computing needs education and consumer users, the current iBook design was introduced May . Current iBook models feature -inch -inch TFT active-matrix displays, include integrated wireless capabilities, utilize PowerPC processors, offer choice optical drive configurations, weigh little pounds, and have long battery life. iBooks are currently available configuration with suggested retail price under $ , . iPod\x99 Introduced October , the original iPod portable digital music player utilized 5GB hard disk drive allowing hold , -quality songs ounce design. The iPod features intuitive user interface -inch liquid crystal display, automatic synchronization with music collection Macintosh system via Apple\' iTunes ® digital music software, high-speed FireWire® connection for power and data transfer and hours battery life. iPods also provide access contact and calendar information downloaded from other applications Macintosh system. enhancing the overall functionality and integration the digital music player and expanding the usefulness digital music and other information stored computer, the iPod represents important and natural extension Apple\' digital hub strategy. March , the Company added 10GB model its iPod line, and July , the Company added 20GB model and announced that all iPod models would made available Windows-compatible versions. The newer 10GB and 20GB iPod models come with carrying cases, wired remotes, and feature solid-state touch wheel control. Peripheral Products The Company sells certain associated Apple-branded computer hardware peripherals, including range high quality flat panel TFT active-matrix digital color displays. The Company also sells variety third-party Macintosh-compatible hardware products directly end users through both its retail and online stores, including computer printers and printing supplies, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, personal digital assistants, digital music players and related accessories, and various other computing products and supplies. Software Products and Computer Technologies Operating System and Server Software During , the Company introduced the first customer release its new client operating system, Mac ® , and its first significant upgrade, Mac version . its introduction, Mac offered advanced functionality built open-source UNIX-based foundation and incorporated the most fundamental changes both core technology and user interface design made the Company the Mac single upgrade since the original introduction the Macintosh . Mac features memory protection, pre-emptive multi-tasking, and symmetric multiprocessing. Mac includes Apple\' Quartz\x99 graphics engine (based the Internet-standard Portable Document Format) for enhanced graphics and broad font support, OpenGL for enhanced graphics and gaming, and Apple\' new user interface named "Aqua ® ," which combines superior ease- -use with new functionality. January , the Company made Mac the default operating system all new Macintosh systems. Mac allows users run Mac applications natively the Classic compatibility environment ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Mac . The Company also develops and distributes extensions the Macintosh system software including utilities, languages, and developer tools. August , the Company released Mac version (code named "Jaguar"), the current release Mac . Jaguar includes new Mail application designed manage junk mail; iChat\x99, AIM-compatible instant messenger; system-wide Address Book; Inkwell\x99 handwriting recognition; improved Universal Access; enhanced Finder; updated version QuickTime®, the Company\' multimedia software for playing, interacting with viewing video, audio, and graphics files; and updated version Sherlock®, the Company\' advanced Internet search engine. Jaguar also features accelerated graphics performance, increased compatibility with Windows networks, and UNIX-based foundation with enhancements including FreeBSD and GCC -based developer tools. Mac server software was initially introduced May . The current version Mac Server, Mac Server version (code named "Jaguar Server") was released August . Jaguar Server UNIX-based operating system designed for superior performance and reliability. delivers high-performance services for Internet and web serving, filing, printing, and networking services needed manage network Mac, UNIX, and Windows clients. Based the Mach microkernel and the BSD operating system, Jaguar Server modern UNIX-based server built open standards. provides performance and stability through full pre-emptive multi-tasking, symmetric multiprocessing, protected memory, advanced virtual memory, software RAID support, and support for networking and security standards. Jaguar Server also includes Apple\' Open Directory architecture for centralized management network resources using LDAPv3 directory services and suite built- , standards-based Internet services like optimized Apache web server for high-performance hosting secure dynamic web sites and QuickTime Streaming Server and QuickTime Broadcaster for streaming live events over the Internet. Jaguar Server also comes with flexible mail server that supports POP and secure IMAP, well WebMail for browser-based email access. Further information regarding the introduction and updates Mac and Mac Server may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Professional Application Software Final Cut Pro® video authoring application designed meet the demanding needs the professional video editing environment combining single software package professional-quality video editing and compositing, real-time effects, professional color correction tools and innovative interface that seamlessly integrates editing, compositing and effects tools for efficient and powerful media creation workflow. Final Cut Pro especially popular among broadcast professionals because allows them increase their programming output fraction the cost traditional editing systems. Post production facilities use Final Cut Pro for the production wide range projects including feature-length films, primetime television shows, news broadcasts, documentaries, trailers and commercials. Final Cut Pro was honored the Academy Television Arts and Sciences with Primetime Emmy Engineering Award for its impact the television industry. Shake® the Company\' industry-leading compositing and visual effects software designed for large format film and video productions. Shake features fast rendering engine, extensive and mature compositing toolset, two industry-standard keyers, complete suite color correction tools, tracking stabilization capabilities, integrated procedural paint, rotoscoping tools, and support for leading plug- vendors. Shake has been used the production over hundred motion pictures including the past five winners the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects. Introduced during the fourth quarter , Shake was the first Mac native version the software and added improved image input, disk-based proxy system, and the ability limit the rendering process portion image for quicker processing. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Introduced , Cinema Tools for Final Cut Pro\x99 new software package that enhances Final Cut Pro \' frames-per-second (fps) editing capabilities with support for film cut lists and -frame edit decision lists (EDLs) for high-definition ( ) video. The -frame EDL support allows off-line projects finished using significantly more affordable Final Cut Pro®-based finishing systems. Cinema Tools for Final Cut Pro robust solution for filmmakers who shoot and finish with 35mm 16mm film, but want take advantage the cost and time benefits digital editing Final Cut Pro system. Cinema Tools converts "telecined" content its native -frame rate for editing, then generates -fps cut list for negative conform. With its support for -fps EDL import export, Cinema Tools for Final Cut Pro provides video professionals with not only affordable path online finishing, but also the EDL conversion capabilities required create high-definition 24P universal masters used efficiently meet the needs varying international distribution formats. DVD Studio Pro® lets professional users encode video, conduct complex authoring tasks and preview finished product real-time and allows users burn DVDs using SuperDrive-equipped Macintosh systems. handles the MPEG encoding, menu creation, asset organization, linking, and output formatting that are required produce DVD-Video disks. DVD Studio Pro has been optimized for Mac and features enhanced integration with Final Cut Pro. The Company was honored the National Academy Recording Arts and Sciences with Technical GRAMMY Award for its outstanding technical contributions the music industry and recording field. This was the first Technical GRAMMY ever awarded personal computer company. From the original Macintosh, the first personal computer include built- audio capabilities, Apple has helped change the way music written, recorded, mixed and enjoyed. The Company acquired Emagic, leading provider professional software and hardware solutions for computer based music production, during the fourth quarter . Emagic\' most popular product, Logic®, actively used musicians around the world and professionals music production, film scoring, and post production facilities. the time the acquisition, Macintosh-based products accounted for over % Emagic\' revenues. Emagic\' Windows-based product offerings were discontinued the Company during its first fiscal quarter . Consumer, Education and Business Oriented Application Software iMovie\x99 , the Company\' easy- -use consumer digital video editing software for creation home and classroom movies, features enhanced user interface, improved audio editing capabilities, enhanced controls for titling and transitions, and added special effects. iMovie currently preinstalled all the Company\' Macintosh systems. iDVD\x99 consumer oriented software that makes easy turn iMovie files, QuickTime files and digital pictures into DVDs that can played most consumer DVD players. iDVD simplifies DVD authoring including professionally designed themes and drag-and-drop simplicity. iDVD currently preinstalled all Macintosh systems equipped with SuperDrive. The Company introduced iPhoto\x99 January . Designed exclusively for Mac , iPhoto makes easy import, edit, save, share, and print digital photos, well organize and manage entire digital photo collection containing thousands photos. Users are able view their photos full-screen; using the slide show feature accompanied their favorite music; automatically create custom web pages their photos; email photos friends and family; order professionally-processed prints and enlargements online; easily design and order custom-printed, linen-covered hard bound photo books online. Prints, enlargements, and hard bound book production currently only available . customers. iPhoto currently preinstalled all the Company\' Macintosh systems. iTunes® digital music application for the Macintosh that lets users create and manage their own digital music library. iTunes organizes music using searching, browsing and playlist features. supports both audio and MP3 burning, features graphic equalizer and cross fading between songs, and supports automatic synchronization with the music stored iPod, Apple\' portable digital music player. iTunes currently preinstalled all Macintosh systems. July , the Company introduced iTunes , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' featuring Smart Playlists, which automatically and dynamically updates playlists based simple rules set the user, and Sound Check for consistent volume playback. During the fourth quarter , the Company released two new applications, iCal and iSync Public Beta. iCal new calendar program that allows users manage multiple calendars and share them over the Internet. iCal makes easy for consumers, students, educators and small business users create and manage individual group activities single multiple calendars; publish these calendars the web for viewing colleagues, friends and family members; subscribe automatically updated calendars via the Internet keep with work schedules, family events and school events; organize and track activities with list management; quickly locate any event via search tool; and take calendars using iSync with Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones, Palm devices and iPod. iSync Public Beta preview version Apple\' new software application that automatically synchronizes address books and calendars between Macintosh systems and the new generation Bluetooth-enabled GPRS mobile phones, Apple\' iPod and Palm -compatible handheld organizers. addition, users with Mac\x99 account can use iSync seamlessly synchronize their calendars and address books across multiple Macintosh systems connected the Internet. AppleWorks® integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, page layout, image manipulation, spreadsheets, databases and presentations single application. Intended easy- -use product for the Company\' consumer and education customers, AppleWorks makes simple create professional-looking documents the classroom and home. FileMaker Corporation, wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes desktop-based database management application software for Mac and Windows-based systems. FileMaker\' FileMaker ® Pro database software and related products offer strong relational databases and advanced desktop- -web publishing capabilities. Internet Software, Integration, and Services Apple\' Internet strategy focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' product lines. The Company\' Internet products and technologies adhere many industry standards order provide optimized user experience through interoperability. easy Internet Setup Assistant included with the Mac . QuickTime®, the Company\' multimedia software for Macintosh and Windows platforms, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet and playback high-quality audio and video computers. QuickTime Player easy- -use application for playing, interacting with viewing video, audio, QuickTime images, graphics files. More than million copies QuickTime Player were downloaded via the Internet during the last year. Tens thousands software applications and content CDs feature QuickTime, and more than models digital cameras from most major brands use QuickTime capture and display their images. The current version QuickTime, QuickTime , was released July and features support for the open-standard MPEG format. QuickTime includes the new Instant- Streaming feature that eliminates buffer delays and provides users with the ability quickly and easily scrub through streaming media content locate and instantly view specific sections. addition, QuickTime running Mac now supports JPEG , the next generation JPEG standard that allows users capture still images higher quality and smaller file size than ever before. QuickTime also includes Advanced Audio Coding (AAC), the standard MPEG- audio format. AAC the next generation professional-quality audio format that delivers superior sound quality with reduced file sizes. QuickTime Pro suite software that allows creation and editing Internet-ready audio and video files and allows user add special effects and other features QuickTime movies. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END QuickTime Streaming Server software the underlying server technology that powers QuickTime\' ability stream live and stored video and audio over the Internet. QuickTime Streaming Server based open sourced, standards-based Real-Time Transport Protocol Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTP RTSP) engine. The current version, QuickTime Streaming Server , extends support for standards adding support for both MPEG and MP3. While QuickTime Streaming Server designed for Mac Server, also available open source server. Because QuickTime Streaming Server open source technology can ported other platforms, and versions are available for Linux, Solaris and Windows . QuickTime Broadcaster the Company\' live encoding software that allows users quickly and easily produce professional-quality live events for online delivery. The combination QuickTime Broadcaster, QuickTime Streaming Server and QuickTime provides the industry\' first end- -end MPEG- -based Internet broadcasting system, which allows users reach not only the large and growing base installed QuickTime Players, but also any ISO-compliant MPEG- player. WebObjects®, the Company\' Java-based application server for web publishing and enterprise application development, offers complete solution for rapid development and deployment web applications. WebObjects features sophisticated graphical development tools, comprehensive prebuilt and reusable components, integration with numerous data sources, and robust deployment tools. Introduced with Mac Jaguar, Sherlock® the Company\' advanced Internet search engine. Sherlock functions for users Internet service tool that retrieves and displays personalized view some the most practical and useful information available the Internet, such stock news, general headlines, movie previews, locations and show times, yellow pages listings, eBay auction activity and more. Sherlock displays each these \'channels\' its own arrangement columns and panes. When used for Internet searches, Sherlock utilizes multiple search engines provide search results ranked relevance, name, web site. July , the Company launched Mac\x99, new suite Internet services that for annual fee provides Macintosh users with powerful Internet tools Mac features email service with IMAP, POP web-based access, 100MB Internet storage, and hosting for personalized homepages and shared digital photo albums. Also included with Mac McAfee\' Virex anti-virus software and Backup, personal back- solution that allows users archive data their Internet storage, , DVD. Wireless Connectivity and Networking AirPort ® the Company\' wireless networking technology that allows users create computer network and connect the Internet without cables, additional phone lines, complicated networking hardware. Based the IEEE 11b wireless standard and - certified, AirPort allows high-speed wireless communications within radius approximately feet from AirPort base station. AirPort includes security features like firewall protection and -bit encryption protect user data. With the addition AirPort networking card, all the Company\' desktop and portable Macintosh systems have built- support for AirPort wireless networking, including built- antennas and AirPort card slot. During , the Company released its Bluetooth technology for Mac . Bluetooth emerging industry standard for wirelessly connecting computers and peripherals that supports transmission data Mbps within range approximately feet. The Company\' Bluetooth technology for Mac lets customers wirelessly share files between Macintosh systems, synchronize and share contact information with Palm- based PDAs, and access the Internet through Bluetooth-enabled cell phones. Bluetooth USB adaptor can Bluetooth-enable any USB-based Macintosh computer running Mac version higher. Bluetooth software built into Max Jaguar. Introduced the fourth quarter , the Company\' new Rendezvous\x99 networking technology based open Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Standard Protocols such , ARP and DNS. Rendezvous uses industry standard networking protocols and zero configuration technology ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' automatically discover and connect devices over any network, including Ethernet -based wireless networks like the Company\' AirPort product. Major developers such Canon, Epson, Hewlett-Packard, Lexmark, Philips, Sybase, World Book and Xerox have announced support for Rendezvous broad range products including network printers, consumer electronics, enterprise database management and educational applications. September , the Company announced that was "open sourcing" the code for Rendezvous. making the source code freely available, the Company allows developers use Rendezvous technology their network-enabled devices software applications. The Rendezvous source code includes software support UNIX, Linux, and Windows- based systems and devices. Rendezvous support built into Mac Jaguar. Apple Remote Desktop\x99 for Mac software enables users, teachers and administrators remotely manage other Macintosh systems anywhere local network, AirPort wireless network across the Internet. With Apple Remote Desktop, teachers can view students\' computer screens, perform group demonstrations and help individuals with real-time screen-sharing, text chat and the "request attention" command. System administrators can provide remote assistance, get comprehensive system profiles, reconfigure system settings and quickly and easily distribute software applications across hundreds computers\x97all from one central location over both Ethernet and AirPort wireless networks. Apple Remote Desktop supports multiple levels administrator access, each with its own password, providing secure way for teachers department-level administrators assist users while restricting privileges for deleting items changing system settings. The Company invented FireWire® technology, also referred IEEE , which high-speed serial input output technology for connecting digital devices such digital camcorders and cameras desktop and portable computers. With its high data-transfer speed and "hot plug-and-play" capability, FireWire has become established cross-platform industry standard for both consumers and professionals and the data interface choice for today\' digital video and audio devices, well external hard drives and other high-speed peripherals. Industry data indicates that FireWire will included more than million personal computers and nearly million digital devices the end calendar . The Company received Primetime Emmy Engineering Award for FireWire\' impact the television industry. FireWire currently included all Macintosh systems and the data transfer technology utilized iPod. Third-Party Software Products Thousands third-party software titles and solutions are available for the Macintosh platform. The Company sells variety these third-party software products directly end users through both its retail and online stores. Additional information regarding the Company\' relationship with and dependence upon third-party software developers, including Microsoft Corporation, may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for Apple customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan fee-based service that typically includes three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. Apple Training offers comprehensive system administration and development training Apple technologies, together with certification programs that test customers\' skills and verify their technical proficiency. Apple Professional Services offers range custom, personalized technical services, including Internet consulting and setup, installation and integration services. The Company also offers specialized loan programs including loans for consumers, students, and educators. Apple also provides leasing ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' solutions for its education institution customers and its business and professional customers. The Company uses several third-party lenders originate and carry these loans and leases. Specialized Education Products and Services The Company offers variety unique services and products its education customers, including separate online store for education customers offering special education price lists and promotions; special financing programs for - and higher education students, faculty, and staff; special edition its productivity software suite, AppleWorks, that cross platform for both Macintosh and Windows computers; the iBook Wireless Mobile Lab that allows teachers and students share iBook computers, printer, and wireless network Internet connection stored cart for mobility between classrooms; and three special Digital Media Studio solutions designed for education, including one that integrated into mobile cart. Additionally, Apple Professional Services offers range technical services education customers. , Apple acquired PowerSchool Inc., privately held provider web-based student information systems for - schools and school districts. PowerSchool ® software products give school administrators and teachers the ability easily and cost-effectively manage student records and give parents real-time access track their children\' performance via the Internet. PowerSchool offers the option remote hosting with application service provider model. Markets and Distribution The Company\' customers are primarily the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. Certain customers are attracted Macintosh computers for variety reasons, including the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh computer\' intuitive ease use, advanced graphics capabilities, industrial design features the Company\' hardware products, and ability Macintosh computers network and communicate with other computer systems and environments. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late 1970s. Over % the Company\' net sales were education customers the United States, including sales elementary and secondary schools and college and university customers. Further information relating the . education market and the Company\' position that market may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. During single distributor, Ingram Micro Inc., accounted for approximately % net sales. other customer accounted for more than % net sales during , and individual customer accounted for more than % net sales . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, businesses, and certain resellers through its retail stores the United States, through one its online stores around the world. Net sales attributable the Company\' online stores totaled approximately $ billion and $ billion for fiscal years and , respectively. Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The market for the design, manufacture, and sale personal computers and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. This market continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development, which have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and have resulted the frequent introduction new products and significant price, feature, and performance competition. Over the past several years price competition the market for personal computers has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share response weakness demand for personal computing products. The Company\' results ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors the market for personal computers include relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing platforms. Further information relating the competitive conditions the personal computing industry and the Company\' competitive position that market place may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Raw Materials Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability constraints and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These formal and informal commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position. this time, such vendors include Agere Systems, Inc., Ambit Microsystems Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Elite Computer Systems ., Inc., Hon Hai Precision Industry ., Ltd., IBM Corporation, Inventec Appliances Corporation, . Phillips ., Ltd., Matsushita, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Nvidia Corp., Quanta Computer, Inc., Samsung Electronics, Solectron Corporation, and Toshiba Corporation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product." Research and Development Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products and technology the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and the Internet. The Company\' research and development expenditures, before any charges for purchased -process research and development, totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, peripheral systems, and software. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the United States and number foreign countries for "Apple," the Apple silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh," and numerous other product trademarks and service marks. , the Company acquired ownership the trademark "Macintosh" for use connection with computer products. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Information regarding claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and risks related the Company\' reliance third-party intellectual property set forth Part , Item this Form - , and Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The United States represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\' net sales fiscal came from sales customers inside the United States. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, and Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Additional information regarding the risks associated with international operations set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Seasonal Business Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the school year. However, over the past two years the Company has not experienced these seasonal fluctuations net sales due the negative impact current economic conditions the overall demand for the Company\' products. Past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the end user. The Company also offers -day warranty for Apple software and for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most Apple hardware products all the Company\' major markets. Backlog the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the subject these laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company. The parliament the European Union working finalize the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (the Directive). The Directive makes manufacturers electrical goods, including personal computers, financially responsible for the collection, recycling, and safe disposal past and future products. The Directive must now approved and implemented individual European Union governments . The Company\' potential liability resulting from the Directive related past sales its products and expenses associated with future sales its product may substantial. However, because likely that specific laws, regulations, and enforcement policies will vary significantly between individual European member states, not currently possible estimate the Company\' existing liability future expenses resulting from the Directive. the European Union and its individual member states clarify specific requirements and policies with respect the Directive, the Company will continue assess its potential financial impact. Similar legislation may enacted other geographies, including federal and state legislation the United States, the cumulative impact which could significant. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Employees September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , employees and additional , temporary employees and contractors. Item . Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, and the Asia Pacific region. Leased space the United States includes , square feet retail space. Leases are generally for terms years, and usually provide renewal options for terms additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento and Cork facilities also house customer support call centers. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Item . Legal Proceedings The Company subject certain legal proceedings and claims, including those described below, which have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. Information regarding the risks and potential financial impact these legal matters set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Commitments and Contingencies." Articulate Systems, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Articulate filed this action March the United States District Court Massachusetts claiming patent infringement relating voice recognition technology. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The case was stayed for several months pending resolution four summary judgment motions filed the Company, all which were denied the Court. Through series corporate transactions the assets belonging Plaintiff were acquired subsidiary, Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products . (" & "). & filed for bankruptcy November and being liquidated part the bankruptcy. The case currently stayed pending the resolution the liquidation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Bancroft . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Bancroft filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles Superior Court behalf potentially nationwide class purchasers certain Power Macintosh computers. Plaintiff alleges violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") arising from allegedly poor performance while running the Company\' Mac operating system, specifically relating hardware acceleration, QuickTime movie hardware acceleration, graphics performance and DVD movie playback. Plaintiff seeks actual damages, injunctive relief, restitution, punitive damages, attorneys\' fees and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The parties participated mediation October without resolution. The parties are discovery. BIAX Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff BIAX filed this action September , the United States District Court Delaware claiming patent infringement relating dual processor technology. IBM and Motorola were added defendants amended complaint. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The parties are discovery. Dynacore Holdings Corp. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Dynacore filed this action June , United States District Court for the Southern District New York against the Company and thirteen other defendants claiming patent infringement relating IEEE technology, also known FireWire. Plaintiff claims that any computer system other electronic product that uses complies with the IEEE standard violates the patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Defendants are seeking amend the pleading assert counterclaim for inequitable conduct against Dynacore. The case was stayed pending the Federal Circuit\' decision Datapoint Corp. . Standard Microsystems Corp ., related case which plaintiff claimed that its patent was infringed products complying with the fast Ethernet standard. February , the Federal Circuit affirmed the judgment non-infringement Datapoint, and the District Court lifted the stay this action. The defendants filed joint motion for summary judgment based upon the decision Datapoint. The Court heard the motion October , and has not yet issued its ruling. Elonex Holdings Ltd., EIP Licensing, . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this action February , the United States District Court Delaware claiming patent infringement relating low power consumption monitor standby system. Plaintiffs filed numerous identical lawsuits against other computer monitor manufacturers and computer systems manufacturers. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity the patents issue. The parties reached settlement July . Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. FTC Inquiry\x96Prado . Apple Computer, Inc. (and related actions) October , Apple began charging all . non-education customers for live telephone technical support beyond days after purchase Apple products. late , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) commenced investigation into customer complaints that Apple\' change technical support practices was either unfair contrary earlier representations certain customers. Four purported class action lawsuits were filed against Apple related this change. During the fourth quarter , the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' regional and national offices the FTC approved settlement with the Company, and settlement was approved the Court three the class action suits. November , two appeals were filed objecting the settlement. The California Court Appeal upheld the settlement, and the California Supreme Court denied review the Court Appeal\' decision. further appeals were taken and the Company administering the settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Hawaii Structural Iron Workers and Pension Trust Fund . Apple Computer, Inc. and Steven . Jobs; Young . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Hsu . Apple Computer Inc. Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Pierce . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Pierce filed this action June , Santa Clara County Superior Court. This case was purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf purchasers the Company\' AirPort Card and AirPort Base Station ("AirPort System"). Plaintiffs alleged that the Company engaged false advertising and unfair business practices (among other causes action) advertising that the AirPort System Internet-ready and failing disclose that the AirPort System incompatible with certain Internet service providers, primarily America Online. The Company answered the complaint, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The parties reached settlement that received final approval the Court October , . The Company administering the settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Pitney Bowes Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Pitney Bowes filed this patent infringement action June , the United States District Court Connecticut alleging patent infringement relating laser printer technology. Plaintiff has filed similar lawsuits against other companies. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity the patents issue. The Connecticut Court transferred this case the Eastern District Kentucky February , and consolidated the case with two other lawsuits, declaratory judgment action filed Xerox and Pitney Bowes\' patent infringement case against Epson. The case set for trial June , . Sternberg . Apple Computer, Inc. and Gordon . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Sternberg filed this action against the Company March , the Santa Clara County Superior Court. The case was purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf purchasers iMac and iMac computers. Plaintiff alleged that Apple engaged false advertising, unfair competition and breach warranty, among other causes action, marketing and selling DVD player with iMac and iMac computers where the playback was unacceptable. companion case, Gordon . . Apple Computer, Inc . was filed largely the same plaintiffs June , . This case was essentially the same Sternberg but with respect different computer model\x97the Power Macintosh . The Company answered both complaints, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The parties reached settlement August that received final ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' approval the Court February , . The Company administering the settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. UNOVA, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff UNOVA filed this patent infringement action against the Company and six other defendants May , the Central District California for infringement eight UNOVA patents related "Smart Battery Management". Plaintiff alleges that the Company\' portable computers manufactured since infringe these eight patents. Plaintiff has filed similar lawsuits against other companies addition the -defendants this case. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All share price and per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Item . Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE net loss before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million was recognized . Net gains before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent and was reversed. Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\' discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations requires the Company\' management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Item this Form - describe the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\' consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions that believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management believes the following critical accounting policies. That , they are both important the portrayal the Company\' financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . SAB , amended, summarizes certain the SEC\' views applying generally accepted accounting principles revenue recognition financial statements and provides guidance revenue recognition issues the absence authoritative literature addressing specific arrangement specific industry. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. Revenue multiple element sales arrangements allocated various elements based vendor specific objective evidence the fair value each element the transaction and recognized each element delivered. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result incremental reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible, the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Europe, Asia, and Latin America. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\' assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\' distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\' financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each period that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product lifecycle status, product development plans, and component cost trends. The personal computer industry subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence. future demand market conditions for the Company\' products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are made. The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been canceled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These formal and informal commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\' products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\' products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees, negatively affecting gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Valuation Long-Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangibles The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount such asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such assets are considered ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' impaired, the impairment recognized earnings equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds their fair market value. Although the Company has recognized material impairment adjustments related its property, plant, and equipment identifiable intangibles during the past three fiscal years, except those made conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration the Company\' business geographic region business segment the future, including deterioration the performance individual retail stores, could lead such impairment adjustments the future periods which such business issues are identified. September , , the Company had $ million goodwill. The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . result, the Company longer amortizes goodwill but instead performs review goodwill for impairment annually, earlier indicators potential impairment exist. The review goodwill for potential impairment highly subjective and requires that: ( ) goodwill allocated various business units the Company\' business which relates; ( ) the Company estimate the fair value those business units which the goodwill relates; and ( ) the Company determine the book value those business units. the estimated fair value business units with allocated goodwill determined less than their book value, the Company required estimate the fair value all identifiable assets and liabilities those business units manner similar purchase price allocation for acquired business. This requires independent valuation certain internally developed and unrecognized assets including -process research and development and developed technology. Once this process complete, the amount goodwill impairment, any, can determined. Based the Company\' estimates September , , there was impairment goodwill. However, changes various circumstances including changes the Company\' market capitalization, changes the Company\' forecasts, and changes the Company\' internal business structure could cause one more the Company\' business units valued differently thereby causing impairment goodwill. Additionally, response changes the personal computer industry and changes global regional economic conditions, the Company may strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing , otherwise exiting businesses, which could result impairment property, plant, and equipment, identifiable intangibles, goodwill. Valuation Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments September , , the Company held investments certain debt and equity securities with combined carrying value $ million. These investments, which are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments, have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes impairment charge earnings when judged investment has experienced decline value that other-than-temporary. The Company has recognized material impairment charges related its non-current debt and equity investments two quarters during the last two fiscal years. Various factors are considered determining whether decline value other-than-temporary, including the length time and extent which the investment\' market value has been less than its cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects the issuer, and the Company\' intent and ability hold the investment for period time sufficient allow for any anticipated recovery market value. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments are public companies whose security prices are subject significant volatility. The Company recognized pre-tax impairment loss $ million related two these investments the fourth quarter . result, September , , the Company had significant unrealized gains losses recorded against the carrying value its non-current debt and equity investments. Should the fair value these investments fall below the Company\' current cost bases and the financial condition prospects either company deteriorate, the Company may determine future period that such decline fair value other-than-temporary, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' requiring impairment loss recognized the period such determination made. Additional information regarding these investments and potential charges related their impairment may found below under the caption "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales for geographic segments and product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change Change Americas net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Europe net sales , % , ( )% , Japan net sales % ( )% , Retail net sales \x97 \x97 \x97 Other segments net sales % ( )% Total net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Americas Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , Europe Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% , Japan Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales \x97 \x97 \x97 Other segments Macintosh unit sales % ( )% Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Power Macintosh net sales ( ) $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , PowerBook net sales % ( )% iMac net sales , % , ( )% , iBook net sales % % Software, Service, and Other net sales , % ( )% , Total net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Power Macintosh unit sales ( ) ( )% ( )% , PowerBook unit sales % ( )% iMac unit sales , % , ( )% , iBook unit sales % % Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes server sales and amounts previously reported Power Macintosh Cube. ( ) Based net sales associated with Macintosh units and total Macintosh units sold. Net sales increased $ million % during compared , while Macintosh unit sales were relatively flat year-over-year approximately million units. geographic basis, performance the domestic market was relatively strong, especially when considering the performance the Company\' Retail segment which currently operates exclusively the United States. However, the European and Japanese markets remained sluggish throughout . The Company\' net sales were positively influenced number factors. First, net sales from software, service, and other sources rose $ million % versus . This increase was driven several factors including % increase combined third-party and Apple- ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' branded software sales; $ million net sales iPod, the Company\' portable digital music player that was introduced the first half ; % increase the sale computer accessories; and % increase service revenue caused primarily increased revenue associated with extended maintenance and support contracts. The growth software revenue was primarily the result increased sales third-party software the Company\' retail and online stores and expansion recent years the number Apple-branded software titles. Second, overall unit sales Macintosh portable systems grew , units % reflecting general trend the personal computer market away from desktop systems towards portable systems. During , portable Macintosh systems represented % total systems sales versus % and % . Growth this area has been most pronounced for iBook, the Company\' education and consumer oriented portable Macintosh system. iBook unit sales increased % and % . Third, the Company\' Retail segment grew from stores the end stores the end . The Retail segment\' net sales grew from $ million $ million . While the Retail segment may cannibalize some net sales from the Company\' preexisting sales channels the ., the Company does believe that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales are incremental the Company\' total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." Fourth, the Company\' average unit pricing remained relatively stable during result various changes overall unit mix offset somewhat lower pricing year-over-year comparative Macintosh systems. Net sales per Macintosh unit sold during $ , per unit reflects the shift mix towards relatively higher-priced portable Macintosh systems and reflects the impact net sales the relatively higher-priced new iMac design introduced during . The impact these changes mix were offset the decline unit sales relatively higher-priced Power Macintosh systems and lower pricing comparative Macintosh systems during for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure. Fifth, any comparison net sales versus must consider the effect unusually low net sales during the first quarter . discussed below, this was attributable several factors the beginning , including continuing deterioration worldwide demand for personal computers, rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during that quarter that cost the Company approximately $ million, and plan implemented the Company during the first quarter reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels that resulted decline channel inventory approximately , units during that quarter. Net sales during the first quarter are discussed more detail below. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales were negatively impacted several notable factors. First, unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . This followed % decline Power Macintosh unit sales from . The Company continues believe that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers and that many these customers continue delay upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac , its new operating system, and anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their Macintosh applications run natively Mac . Further, the Company did not experience the anticipated increase Power Macintosh sales that expected following the introduction Adobe\' PhotoShop during . Additionally, many professional users may have postponed upgrading their systems until after the introduction Mac Jaguar released the fourth quarter . Others may have delayed upgrading until after the availability other professionally oriented software applications for Mac such QuarkXpress. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Second, despite the overall increase net sales during the Americas, the Company continues see weakness its . education channel. Total net sales this channel fell % and % . These declines are consistent with industry data that shows the Company losing market share the . education market each the last two fiscal years. The Company believes this weakness has been caused multiple factors, including increased price competition this price sensitive market from the Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appear delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy their available funding. The Company continues take steps address weakness the . education channel. However, difficult anticipate how this trend will affect fiscal and anticipate when and this trend will reverse. Third, the personal computer industry general and the Company specifically continue see relatively soft demand for its products. Despite overall increase unit sales consumer oriented Macintosh systems during , consumer sales remain far below levels experienced and earlier. Worsening global economic conditions over the past three years exacerbated the economic and political uncertainties caused terrorist activities and the associated international responses have clearly had pronounced negative effect the overall demand for the Company\' products virtually all its markets. Further, growth the overall personal computer industry has been slowed due the high market penetration personal computers and lengthening consumer, creative, and business personal computer upgrade cycles. short, the Company believes that expansion the overall market for personal computers has for the most part stalled and that growth awaits combination economic recovery and technological advancements. Net sales decreased $ billion % during compared , while Macintosh unit sales fell % from . Demand for all the Company\' products all the Company\' geographic operating segments was negatively impacted throughout unfavorable global economic conditions. year-over-year basis, net sales and Macintosh unit sales were down all the Company\' geographic operating segments, and net sales and unit sales product were down for each Macintosh product category except iBook. addition general economic conditions, two other primary factors contributed the decline net sales during . First, discussed below, the Company executed plan during the first three quarters reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels. result these efforts, the Company\' Macintosh channel inventory fell approximately , units during the first nine months . Second, the Company believes that many its professional users were delaying upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac , its new operating system, and anticipation software vendors transitioning their Mac applications run natively Mac . Several positive factors combined partially mitigate the overall decline net sales during . The net sales per Macintosh unit sold remained relatively strong during after adjusting for the $ million impact net sales the rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during the first quarter , falling only about % from . The relatively strong per unit sales reflects somewhat lower year-over-year pricing comparative systems, offset shift overall sales mix toward higher-priced portable systems. Also, the Company experienced very little shift the mix overall combined unit sales relatively lower-priced consumer and education Macintosh systems, iMac and iBook, and their higher-priced professionally oriented equivalents. Combined unit sales iMac and iBook systems accounted for % total Macintosh unit sales and % . Second, combined unit sales portable systems, iBook and PowerBook, actually rose % during despite the negative economic climate and the overall decline unit sales. Not only does this increase portable system sales reflect general industry shift toward portable systems, also specifically attributable the strong demand for redesigned iBooks introduced during the third quarter and for the Titanium PowerBook which was introduced during the second quarter . Third, small decline net sales ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the . education market during compared was partially mitigated % increase . education unit sales during . First quarter net sales decreased % $ billion compared the same quarter and decreased % from the fourth quarter . Both the year-over-year and sequential declines net sales during the first quarter were attributable several factors, including continued deterioration worldwide demand for personal computers and rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during the quarter that cost the Company approximately $ million. addition, the Company implemented plan during the first quarter reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels from the amounts the end fiscal lower levels the end the first quarter . The Company ended fiscal with substantially more inventory its distribution channels than planned due the lower than expected sell-through the Company\' products during the fourth quarter that year. The Company reduced Macintosh channel inventory during the first quarter approximately , units. These factors contributed the % year-over-year decline during the first quarter total Macintosh unit sales that were experienced across the Company\' entire product line. These factors also reduced the net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( function total net sales associated with Macintosh units and total Macintosh CPU unit sales) during the first quarter $ , , decline approximately % from the same period . Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the Company\' Retail segment. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Americas Net sales for the Americas segment increased % $ million . discussed above, the Americas segment was negatively affected decline . education sales $ million. The Americas segment also experienced % decline Power Macintosh unit sales. However, outside the . education channel, unit sales consumer desktop and portable systems rebounded from the substantial declines experienced , rising combined % . Sales software, peripherals, and accessories were also the Americas during . Growth unit sales consumer oriented systems during the Americas somewhat attributable the significantly depressed level net sales experienced the first quarter discussed above. However, growth the Americas was somewhat negatively affected, particularly with respect consumer-oriented systems, the significant growth the Company\' Retail segment the . More than % the Retail segment\' Macintosh unit sales during were for iMacs and iBooks. The Americas segment\' net sales and unit sales declined % and %, respectively, from . The operating performance the Americas segment for reflects the Company\' overall performance characterized significant declines year-over-year quarterly net sales and units sales, particularly during the first quarter and particularly consumer channels, with sequential increases unit sales and net sales during each the last three quarters . Net sales the Americas segment during were also negatively affected the Company\' overall reduction channel inventories during the year. Consumer sales the Americas were particularly hard hit current economic conditions. Outside the . education channel, unit sales the Company\' consumer oriented iMac fell % . The effect falling consumer demand the Americas segment was partially offset strong . education sales. The Company\' unit sales . education markets rose % driven the acceptance the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company\' new portable products, particularly the iBook, and reflect general shift demand the . education market towards portable versus desktop systems. Portable systems accounted for % total unit sales the Company\' . education market compared % during . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. Europe Economic conditions Europe remained weak throughout , and the overall demand for the Company\' products that region remained flat during versus . Unit sales Europe for reflect relatively stronger demand for consumer-oriented products, particularly iBook whose unit sales increased % , offset declines Power Macintosh unit sales. Net sales Europe fell $ million % during compared , while Europe\' unit sales fell %. Europe\' results reflect the worsening economic climate Europe the latter half and reductions channel inventories experienced the Company\' other geographic operating segments. Combined unit sales the Company\' consumer oriented products Europe were particularly impacted during , falling % from . Japan Net sales Japan remained flat during versus , with slight decline unit sales %. Consistent with the Company\' other geographic operating segments, during Japan showed growth unit sales consumer systems and decline unit sales Power Macintosh systems. Japan\' iMac unit sales increased % . However, the case Japan the increase iMac unit shipments versus was primarily the result the unusually depressed level net sales experienced the Company the first quarter discussed above. Additionally, net sales Japan sequential and year-over-year comparative basis generally worsened progressed reflecting particularly poor economic conditions that currently exist Japan. Net sales and unit sales Japan fell % and %, respectively, versus . Although unit sales and net sales Japan have generally trended upwards progressed, the Japan segment has been particularly affected current unfavorable economic conditions. Reflecting the continuing harsh consumer climate Japan, the Japan segment\' combined unit sales iMacs and iBooks during were down % from , and professionally oriented systems unit sales fell %. Retail the end September , the Company had retail stores operating the United States, which were opened during fiscal . The Company has opened additional stores during the first quarter . During , approximately % the Retail segment\' net sales came from the sale Apple-branded and third-party peripherals and software. This compares % for the Company whole. With average stores open, the Retail segment achieved average annualized revenue per store during the fourth quarter approximately $ million and had approximately million visitors. The Retail segment reported loss for all $ million, and loss for the fourth quarter $ million. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment totaled $ million and $ million . September , , the Retail segment had employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Investment ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' new business model such the Retail segment inherently risky, particularly light the significant investment involved, the current economic climate, and the fixed nature substantial portion the Retail segment\' operating expenses. Results for this segment are dependent upon number risks and uncertainties, some which are discussed below under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Backlog the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over-ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog cannot considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found below under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Gross Margin Gross margin for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gross margin increased % net sales from % . discussed below, gross margin was unusually low resulting from negative gross margin % experienced the first quarter . percentage net sales, the Company\' quarterly gross margins declined during fiscal from % the first quarter down % the fourth quarter. This decline resulted from several factors including rise component costs the year progressed and aggressive pricing the Company across its products lines instituted result continued pricing pressures the personal computer industry. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer industry will remain under pressure throughout fiscal light weak economic conditions, flat demand for personal computers general, and the resulting pressure prices. The foregoing statements regarding anticipated gross margin and the general demand for personal computers during are forward-looking. Gross margin could differ from anticipated levels because several factors, including certain those set forth below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained, targeted gross margin levels will achieved, current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin declined % net sales from % . This decline resulted primarily from gross margin negative % experienced during the first quarter compared % gross margin for the same quarter . addition lower than normal net sales, first quarter margins were negatively impacted the rebate programs and price cuts discussed above that decreased revenue approximately $ million. Additionally, actual and forecasted declines net sales caused the Company recognize during the first quarter approximately $ million charges associated with purchase order cancellations and loss commitments for component purchases. Without these charges, gross margin for the first quarter would have been approximately %, and gross margin for all would have been approximately %. percentage net sales, the Company\' gross margin increased each quarter progressed reaching % during the fourth quarter. This pattern reflects the favorable impact during declining component costs, especially for DRAM, hard drives, and flat panel screens. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. & expense increased % $ million $ million compared . This followed $ million % increase compared . The overall increase & expense over the last two years relates primarily increased & headcount and support for new product development activities. & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million associated with the development Mac Jaguar and approximately $ million associated with the new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million associated with the development the original version Mac . Further information related the Company\' capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) & decreased $ million % during compared . The decrease & primarily the result lower discretionary spending marketing and advertising expenses, decreased spending related information systems, and benefits directly related the Company\' restructuring ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' actions and . These decreases were partially offset higher sales expense resulting from increased operating expenses associated with expansion the Company\' Retail segment. & expenditures decreased $ million % during compared . Declines & spending both and reflect the Company\' overall efforts stabilize and selectively reduce recurring & costs light lower net sales and reduce discretionary marketing and advertising expenses. Given current economic conditions and the Company\' continued strategic investments new product development and its Retail segment, the Company currently identifying additional opportunities make appropriate reductions & costs. Special Charges Included Operating Expenses Special charges included operating expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Restructuring costs $ \x97 $ Purchased -process research and development $ $ \x97 Executive bonus $ ( ) \x97 $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. Once fully implemented, the Company estimates these restructuring actions will result reduced quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. the $ million restructuring charge for fiscal , $ million was incurred the fourth quarter related actions designed reduce headcount costs Corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. Headcount actions, primarily Corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development, resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool product that resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the product the amount $ million. The remaining charge $ million was incurred the first quarter and will ultimately result the elimination approximately positions worldwide, which were eliminated September , , cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. the total charge $ million, substantially all had been spent September , , except for approximately $ million related primarily future payments abandoned operating leases. Restructuring Actions During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. the $ million accrued for severance, $ million had been spent before the end , and the remainder was spent . the $ million accrued for the write-off various assets, substantially all was utilized before the end . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Purchased -Process Research and Development (IPR& ) During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ , which was allocated IPR& . The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts include finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool), provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enables schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track their children\' progress. total purchase consideration $ million, $ million was allocated IPR& and was expensed upon acquisition because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the PowerSchool product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed during , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Executive Bonus During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which was not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge was for the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. the fourth quarter , all significant work and payments associated with the aircraft were complete. the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent the end fiscal and was reversed. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains (losses) non-current investments, net $ ( ) $ $ Unrealized loss convertible securities $ \x97 ( ) $ \x97 Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Miscellaneous other income and expense Interest and other income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains and Losses Non-current Investments Investments categorized non-current debt and equity investments the consolidated balance sheet are equity and debt instruments public companies. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments, and certain investments private companies carried other assets, have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. However, the Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. During , the Company determined that declines the fair value certain these investments were other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink, Inc. (EarthLink), $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment private company investment. These losses were partially offset the sale , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , the sale , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , and the sale approximately million shares ARM Holdings plc (ARM) stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million, and sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million. These gains during were partially offset $ million charge earnings that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value the Company\' investment EarthLink and $ million charge that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value certain private company investments. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ million. The combined carrying value the Company\' investments EarthLink, Akamai, and ARM September , , was $ million. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Accounting for Derivatives and Cumulative Effect Accounting Change October , , the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million for the first quarter . The $ million gross transition adjustment was comprised $ million favorable adjustment for the restatement fair value the derivative component the Company\' investment Samsung Electronics ., Ltd. (Samsung), partially offset the unfavorable adjustments certain foreign currency and interest rate derivatives. SFAS . also required the Company adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung earnings during the first quarter , the before tax effect which was unrealized loss approximately $ million. Interest and Other Income, Net Net interest and other income was $ million fiscal , compared $ million fiscal . This $ million % decrease primarily the result declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . Net interest and other income increased $ million % $ million during . The increase was due part interest income from higher cash and invested balances , partially offset declining interest rates and investment yields, and rebalancing the aggregate investment portfolio higher proportion lower risk and better credit investments. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . The Company expects interest and other income, net decline substantially declines interest rates continue impact earnings the Company\' investment portfolio. The Company\' expects this decline most pronounced the second half the fiscal year. The foregoing statements are forward-looking. Interest and other income, net could differ from expected levels because several factors, including certain those set forth below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Additionally, actual future interest and other income, net may significantly impacted unforeseen changes market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the fair value the Company\' short-term and long-term investments. Provision for Income Taxes The Company\' effective tax rate for was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily the research and development credit and the reversal valuation allowances. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed audits the Company\' federal income tax returns through . Substantially all IRS audit issues for years through have been resolved. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the asset. SFAS . requires that the fair value liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. The Company required adopt the provisions SFAS . for the first quarter its fiscal . Management does not expect the adoption SFAS . have material impact the Company\' financial statements. August , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Disposal Long-Lived Assets (Statement ), which supersedes both SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed and the accounting and reporting provisions APB Opinion . (Opinion ), Reporting the Results Operations\x97Reporting the Effects Disposal Segment Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions , for the disposal segment business ( previously defined that Opinion). SFAS . retains the fundamental provisions SFAS . for recognizing and measuring impairment losses long-lived assets held for use and long-lived assets disposed sale, while also resolving significant implementation issues associated with SFAS . . For example, SFAS . provides guidance how long-lived asset that used part group should evaluated for impairment, establishes criteria for when long-lived asset held for sale, and prescribes the accounting for long-lived asset that will disposed other than sale. SFAS . retains the basic provisions Opinion how present discontinued operations the income statement but broadens that presentation include component entity (rather than segment business). Unlike SFAS . , impairment assessment under SFAS . will never result write-down goodwill. Rather, goodwill evaluated for impairment under SFAS . . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The Company required adopt the provisions SFAS . for the first quarter its fiscal . Management does not expect the adoption SFAS . for long-lived assets held for use have material impact the Company\' financial statements because the impairment assessment under SFAS . largely unchanged from SFAS . . The provisions SFAS . for assets held for sale other disposal generally are required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated disposal activities. June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities . SFAS . supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs Exit Activity (Including Certain Costs Associated with Restructuring) and requires that liability for cost associated with exit disposal activity recognized when the liability incurred, opposed when management committed exit plan. SFAS . also establishes that the liability should initially measured and recorded fair value. This Statement effective for exit disposal activities initiated after December , . The provisions SFAS . are required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated exit activities, and may affect the timing recognizing future restructuring costs, well the amounts recognized. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, virtually unchanged from the end fiscal . The primary sources total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments fiscal were $ million cash generated operating activities and $ million proceeds from the exercise employee stock options, offset cash utilized for business and asset acquisitions $ million and capital expenditures $ million. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Remaining terms the Company\' existing operating leases range from years. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into additional operating lease commitments for retail space with future lease commitments totaling $ million for periods ranging from years. Long-Term Debt The Company currently has long-term debt outstanding the form $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\' products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from months. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such formal and informal purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Capital Expenditures total capital expenditures $ million, $ million was for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\' Retail segment and $ million was for corporate infrastructure including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\' Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During and , the Company repurchased common shares. However, during the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. Since inception the repurchase plan, the Company has repurchased committed repurchase total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments The Company has held significant investments ARM, Samsung Electronics ., Ltd, Akamai, and EarthLink. These investments are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income. The combined fair value these investments was $ million, $ million, and $ million the end fiscal , , and , respectively. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the Company. The Company\' operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions. For much the past years, demand for the Company\' products has been negatively impacted worsening global economic conditions. Continued uncertainty about future economic conditions continues make difficult forecast future operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions fail improve continue deteriorate, demand for the Company\' products could continue adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The terrorist attacks that took place September , , disrupted commerce throughout the world and created many economic and political uncertainties that have had strong negative impact the global economy. The long-term effects the September , attacks the Company\' future operating results and financial condition remain unknown. The national and international responses terrorist attacks, the potential for future terrorist attacks and other acts hostility, and the potential for ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' war the Middle East have created economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. The market for personal computers highly competitive. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins order gain maintain market share response weakness demand for personal computing products that began the second half calendar . The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Additionally, several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce products that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. The Company has many substantial competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\' markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft\' Windows operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms, including Windows. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenues, than many competitors. The Company\' ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technology the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\' Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\' brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percent revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. During , the Company introduced new client operating system, Mac , and delivered its first major upgrade, Mac version . During , the Company delivered another major upgrade, Mac Jaguar. Inability the Company improve the performance and functionality Mac , advance customer acceptance the new operating system and its upgrades, obtain the continued commitment software developers transition existing applications run Mac create new applications run Mac , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such formal and informal purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\' ability obtain sufficient supply components, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, TFT-LCD flat-panel displays, and optical and magnetic disk drives), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using the Windows operating systems. Further, despite its efforts educate the marketplace the contrary, the Company believes that many its current and potential customers believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized Windows-based systems and translates slower overall system performance. There have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\' suppliers provide advanced and microprocessors with higher clock speeds sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\' results operations. The inability the future the Company obtain microprocessors sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could have adverse impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the United States. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, and Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod performed third-party vendors Taiwan. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted regional economic, business, environmental, political, military conditions events, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' products could experience quality problems that result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that may contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications such the Company sells often contains "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties that may beyond its control. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. Failure could result lost revenues, loss reputation, and significant expense remedy. The Company\' retail initiative requires substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Since May , the Company has opened retail stores the United States and anticipates opening more stores calendar . The Company\' retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating leases commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\' costs are fixed because depreciation store constructions costs and lease expense. result, should the Retail segment experience decline sales for any reason, significant losses would result. Certain the Company\' stores have been intentionally designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\' typical retail stores. The Company has opened two such stores and has several others under development. Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total commitments per location over the lease terms ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\' control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\' future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; lack consumer acceptance the Company\' retail approach; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Unit sales the Company\' professionally oriented desktop systems have declined sharply over past two three years negatively impacting net sales and gross margin. Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared and fell % from . Power Macintosh unit sales have fallen percentage total Macintosh unit sales from % % . The Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers who are the primary users such systems. The Company also believes that many these customers continue delay upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac and anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their professionally oriented Macintosh software applications run natively Mac . addition the negative impact net sales, declining sales Power Macintosh systems also have negative effect the Company\' overall gross margin because Power Macintosh systems are generally higher priced and have higher individual gross margins than the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company\' other Macintosh systems. Continued deterioration Power Macintosh unit sales will adversely affect the Company\' future net sales and gross margin. future unit sales Power Macintosh systems fail partially fully recover, will difficult for the Company improve its overall profitability. The Company faces increasing competition the . education market. Sales the United States both elementary and secondary schools, well for college and university customers, remains core market for Apple. Net sales these markets fell % the Company\' total net sales from % . This drop reflects declines both net sales and Macintosh unit sales these markets % and %, respectively, fiscal compared . These developments are consistent with industry data showing the Company losing market share the . education market each the last two fiscal years. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers. Although the Company has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase its share the education market maintain its existing share that market. Failure increase maintain market share the education market may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\' products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world. The Company also sells its own products and certain third-party products through its retail stores the United States. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected current economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company\' business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. Historically, the Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can increase the cost the Company product components, negatively affecting the Company\' results operations. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company\' future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\' new operating system, timely basis all. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, for period five years through August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft was required make versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has released Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer for Mac , Microsoft not obligated produce future versions its products subsequent August . While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Company does compete directly with Microsoft number key areas. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. Discontinuance Microsoft Office and other Microsoft products for the Macintosh platform would have adverse effect the Company\' net sales and results operations. The Company\' business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\' future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely effected. Information regarding claims and potential litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company expects its quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\' profit margins vary among its products, its geographic markets, and its distribution channels. result, the overall profitability the Company any given period will depend, part, the product, geographic, and channel mix reflected that period\' net sales. The typical concentration net sales the third month the Company\' fiscal quarters can adversely affect the Company\' business and operating results. The Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics components suppliers, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. The Company\' success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\' employees are located. There can assurance that the Company will able successfully attract and retain the key personnel needs. Additionally, volatility lack positive performance the Company\' stock price may adversely affect its ability retain key employees. September , , substantial majority the Company\' outstanding employee stock options were out- -the-money. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional corporate insurance. Such conditions have resulted higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, and lower coverage limits. For some risks, because cost and availability, the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company does not have insurance coverage. For these reasons, the Company retaining greater portion its insurable risks than has the past relatively greater cost. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivables. This risk heightened economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\' outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The market value the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments subject significant volatility. The Company holds minority investments several public companies with combined fair market value approximately $ million September , . These investments are publicly traded companies whose share prices are subject significant volatility. The Company has categorized its investments these companies available-for-sale requiring the investments carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes impairment charge earnings when judged investment has experienced decline value that other-than-temporary. The Company has recognized material impairment charges related its non-current debt and equity investments twice the last two fiscal years. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company. The parliament the European Union working finalizing the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (the Directive). The Directive makes producers electrical goods, including personal computers, financially responsible for the collection, recycling, and safe disposal past and future products. The Directive must now approved and implemented individual European Union governments June , while the producers\' financial obligations are scheduled start June . The Company\' potential liability resulting from the Directive related past sales its products and expenses associated with future sales its product may substantial. However, because likely that specific laws, regulations, and enforcement policies will vary significantly between individual European member states, not currently possible estimate the Company\' existing liability future expenses resulting from the Directive. the European Union and its individual member states clarify specific requirements and policies with respect the Directive, the Company will continue assess its potential financial impact. Similar legislation may enacted other geographies, including federal and state legislation the United States, the cumulative impact which could significant. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Business interruptions could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. The Company\' major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major components suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Unanticipated changes the Company\' tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\' future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected unanticipated changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. The Company\' stock price may volatile. The Company\' stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, well general economic and political conditions and investors\' concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' common stock the future. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Item . Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the non-hedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap and option positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standard . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , October , . SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' fixed income investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\' investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investment portfolio and long-term debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , $ billion the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments was invested . Agency and corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from years. September , , $ million the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments was . agency securities with underlying maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. Due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for the purpose duration management the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' investment portfolio, the Company may sell investments prior their stated maturities. result such activity, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\' policy hold investments maturity. The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. During the last two years, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps, which qualified accounting hedges, generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and convert portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. Due prevailing market interest rates, during the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. During the Company closed out all its then existing debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. Both the gains and were deferred, recognized long-term debt and are being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. certain times the past, the Company has also entered into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. The Company\' asset swaps did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and were recorded fair value the balance sheet with associated gains and losses recorded interest and other income. Interest rate asset swaps outstanding September , , had weighted-average receive rate % and weighted-average pay rate %. The unrealized loss these assets swaps September , , $ million was deferred and then recognized income part the SFAS . transition adjustment effective October , . The Company closed out all its existing interest rate asset swaps during realizing gain $ million. Foreign Currency Risk Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing within the time frame our hedged positions due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies its foreign subsidiaries. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\' foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The value- -risk the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\' foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual gains and losses the future associated with the Company\' investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\' actual exposures and positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Report Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DQ2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Non-current debt and equity investments Acquired intangible assets Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ $ Accrued expenses Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt Deferred tax liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Acquisition-related deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DS2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Special charges: Restructuring costs \x97 -process research and development \x97 Executive bonus ( ) \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) ( ) Other income and expense: Gains (losses) non-current investments, net ( ) Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 ( ) \x97 Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income (loss) before provision for income taxes ( ) , Provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Income (loss) before accounting change ( ) Cumulative effect accounting change, net income taxes $ \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share before accounting change: Basic $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DU2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Preferred Stock Common Stock Acquisition- Related Deferred Stock Compensation Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Shareholders\' Equity Shares Amount Shares Amount Balances September , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income Foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Conversion Series preferred stock ( ) ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock repurchased \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Issuance common stock and assumption stock options connection with acquisition \x97 \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 Amortization acquisition-related deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 Conversion Series preferred stock ( ) ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income (loss) Foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income (loss) Amortization acquisition-related deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DW2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating: Net income (loss) ( ) Cumulative effect accounting change, net taxes \x97 ( ) \x97 Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization Provision for deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment (Gains) losses investments, net ( ) ( ) Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) Cash generated operating activities Investing: Purchase short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , Purchases long-term investments \x97 ( ) ( ) Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sales equity investments Cash used for business acquisitions ( ) \x97 \x97 Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) investing activities ( ) ( ) Financing: Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock \x97 \x97 ( ) Cash generated (used for) financing activities ( ) Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) , ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes, net $ $ $ Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for conversion Series preferred stock $ \x97 $ $ Issuance common stock connection with acquisition $ \x97 $ $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DY2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related personal computing and communicating solutions for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Typically, the Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. Consequently, additional week was added the first quarter fiscal . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Financial Instruments Investments The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments October , , the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires that all derivatives recognized either assets liabilities fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income approximately $ million, all which was reclassified earnings during . Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are attributable particular risk and that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' derivative instrument reported component other comprehensive income stockholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective achieving offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability identified portion thereof that are attributable particular risk and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. For derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments, changes fair value are recognized earnings the current period. For foreign currency forward contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected cash flows the hedged transactions determined the sum the probability-weighted outcomes with respect the option strike rates with the total change fair value the option hedge. For interest rate swap agreements qualifying fair value hedges, the Company assumes ineffectiveness because these swaps meet the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . . Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms estimated useful lives for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Prior the fourth quarter , the Company had classified capitalized costs related internal-use software the balance sheet other assets. Effective September , , and for all other periods presented, the Company has reclassified internal-use software property, plant, and equipment and reclassified related cash flows for the purchase development internal-use software from cash flow from operations cash flow from investing activities. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments Investments categorized non-current debt and equity investments the consolidated balance sheet are equity and debt instruments public companies. They are not categorized current assets either because, given their nature, they are not readily convertible into cash because they represent potentially longer-term investments the Company. Further, the fair value these investments has been subject high degree volatility. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. However, the Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Occasionally, the Company uses short-term equity derivatives manage potential dispositions non-current debt and equity investments. Any gains losses associated with such derivatives are recognized currently other income and expense. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made material adjustments its long-lived assets except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . SFAS . requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. The Company completed its transitional and annual goodwill impairment tests October , , and August , , respectively, and found impairment. The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenues and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency, remeasure monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' rates, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the Company\' results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products (hardware, software, and peripherals), consulting and implementation services, and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended. Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the United States, and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until product received the customer because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. For other product sales, these criteria are met the Company the time product shipped. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. Revenue for consulting and implementation services recognized upon performance and acceptance the customer. Revenue from extended warranty and support contracts recognized ratably over the contract period. Amounts billed customers excess revenue recognized extended warranty and support contracts are recognized deferred revenue until revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based vendor specific objective evidence the fair value each element. Allocated revenue for each element recognized when revenue recognition criteria have been met for each element. Vendor specific objective evidence fair value generally determined based the price charged when each element sold separately. Shipping Costs The Company\' shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. During the third and fourth quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Jaguar") subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta May and prior release the final version the product the fourth quarter. such, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with development ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Jaguar. Amortization this asset began the fourth quarter when Jaguar was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis over years. addition, during , the Company also began capitalizing certain costs related development its new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. Capitalization, which began upon achievement technological feasibility the first quarter, amounted approximately $ million during the first nine months fiscal . The final version the enterprise student information system was released July. During the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development the original version Mac , subsequent release public beta version the product and prior release the final product version. result, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs during associated with development Mac . Related amortization computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the asset years. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million and $ , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees and has provided pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB . because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected life options and the Company\' expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not provide reliable measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' For purposes the pro forma disclosures pursuant SFAS . provided the Company\' annual reports through , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company have been based solely historical volatility rates the Company\' common stock. The Company has made adjustments its expected volatility assumptions based current market conditions, current market trends, expected volatility implicit market traded options the Company\' stock. The Company will continue monitor the propriety this approach developing its expected volatility assumption and could determine for future periods that adjustments historical volatility and use methodology that based the expected volatility implicit market traded options the Company\' common stock are more appropriate based the facts and circumstances existing future periods. Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect convertible securities reflected using the -converted method. Dilutive potential shares common stock related stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted loss per common share for fiscal because their effect would have been antidilutive. Stock Split June , , the Company affected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, from unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and from net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\' cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities \x97 . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities , . corporate securities Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper, loan participations, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. Net unrealized gains the Company\' investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year, were $ million September , and $ million September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities between and years. The remaining short-term investments September , all had maturities between and months. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments . agency securities had underlying maturities between and years. The remaining short-term investments September , , all had maturities between and months. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and directly certain education and consumer customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Latin America and Asia. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. Trade receivables from single customer, Ingram Micro, Inc., accounted for approximately % and % net accounts receivable September , , and September , , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions). User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represent amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balances sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company does not recognize any profits these sales reflect the sale these components its net sales. Inventory Prepayment April , the Company made $ million prepayment Asian supplier for the purchase components over the following nine months. return for this deposit, the supplier agreed supply the Company with specified level components the three consecutive fiscal quarters ending December , . the supplier fails supply the agreed upon level components any those three fiscal quarters, the Company may cancel the arrangement and receive the amount the prepayment not utilized plus penalty. Approximately $ million this deposit remained unused September , , and reflected the condensed consolidated balance sheets other current assets. The amount the prepayment not utilized the Company before December , , refundable the Company January , . Although the supplier\' existing debt unrated, its public debt pricing consistent with other BBB rated companies. The deposit unsecured and has stated interest component. The Company imputing amount cost sales and interest income during each period the deposit outstanding appropriate market interest rate reflect the economics this transaction. light the supplier\' implied debt rating and because the Company\' prepayment unsecured, non-performance and economic deterioration the supplier could place all some the Company\' deposit risk. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenues and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\' accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions). User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Transactions qualifying accounting hedges: Interest rate instruments: Swaps $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net $ $ $ $ $ $ Purchased options, net $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ $ Sold options, net $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Transactions other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Purchased options, net $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ $ Sold options, net $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions and certain probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, availability appropriate hedging instruments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' accordance with SFAS . , hedges related probable but not firmly committed transactions anticipatory nature are designated and documented hedge inception cash flow hedges and evaluated for hedge effectiveness quarterly. For currency forward contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction determined the sum the probability-weighted outcomes with respect the option strike rates with the total change fair value the option hedge. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income stockholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any residual changes fair value these instruments are recognized current earnings other income and expense. protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\' non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\' functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts offset the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. Hedge effectiveness forwards designated net investment hedges measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates are recognized current earnings other income and expense. discussed above, the Company enters into foreign currency option contracts items that provide offset the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. All changes the fair value these derivative contracts based changes option time value are recorded current earnings other income and expense. Due market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. During , the Company recorded net gains $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. During , the Company recorded net gain $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales. Interest Rate Risk Management The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. September , , the Company had entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and converted portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps. During fiscal , the Company closed out all its existing debt interest rate swap positions due prevailing market interest rates realizing gain $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. The unrealized loss the assets swaps September , , $ million was deferred and then recognized income part the SFAS . transition adjustment effective October , . The Company closed out all its existing interest rate asset swaps during realizing gain $ million. September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. Due perceived market risk, the Company entered into interest rate swaps early . These interest rate swaps were entered into with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. The interest rate swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps during fiscal until the Company closed out the positions late due prevailing market interest rates. Closing the debt interest rate swaps resulted realized gain $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Long-Term Debt During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . September , and September , , the carrying amount these notes, including unamortized deferred gains associated with closed debt interest rate swaps, was $ million and $ million, respectively, while the fair value was $ million and $ million, respectively. The fair value the notes based their listed market values September , and September , . Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company has held significant investments EarthLink Network, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM), and Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung). These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments, and their combined fair value was $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. EarthLink January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the United States. Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Mac customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP the Company\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the United States. During the second quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary requiring that its cost basis written down fair value new cost basis and the amount the write-down included earnings. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold total approximately , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ , . September , , the Company held million shares EarthLink stock with fair value approximately $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales EarthLink were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company holds million shares EarthLink stock valued $ million. Akamai June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. The fair value the Company\' investment Akamai was approximately $ million September , . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. September , , the Company held million shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales Akamai were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the decline the fair value its investment Akamai was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company holds million shares Akamai stock valued $ million. ARM Holdings ARM publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. During the first quarter , the Company sold million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. sales ARM were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . September , , the Company holds , shares ARM stock valued $ , . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. September , , the Company held million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. Samsung During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment was the form three year unsecured bonds, which were convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning July . The bonds carried annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung was approximately $ million September , . Prior its sale, the Company had categorized its investment Samsung available-for-sale requiring that carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung was approximately $ million September , . With the adoption SFAS . October , , the Company was required account for the conversion option embedded the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Samsung bonds separately from the related debt. The conversion feature was carried fair value with any changes fair value recognized earnings the period which they occur. Included the $ million gross SFAS . transition adjustment recorded earnings during the first quarter fiscal was $ million favorable adjustment for the restatement fair value October , , the derivative component the Company\' investment Samsung. adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung fair value December , , the Company recognized unrealized loss approximately $ million during the first quarter . During the second quarter , the Company sold this investment for book value, including accrued interest, and received net proceeds approximately $ million. Other Strategic Investments The Company has made additional minority debt and equity investments several privately held technology companies which were reflected the consolidated balance sheets other assets. These investments are inherently risky because the products and markets these companies are typically not fully developed. During the Company determined that the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings approximately $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. During , the Company determined that the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings $ million. These charges were included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company has private debt equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details Inventories ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Purchased parts $ $ Work process \x97 \x97 Finished goods Total inventories $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Property, Plant, and Equipment ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Land and buildings $ $ Machinery and equipment Office furniture and equipment Internal-use software Leasehold improvements , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Accrued Expenses ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued compensation and employee benefits $ $ Accrued marketing and sales programs Deferred revenue Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest and Other Income, Net ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss), net Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments ( ) ( ) Miscellaneous other income and expense Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Acquisitions Goodwill and Other Acquisition-Related Intangibles The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill ( ) $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Accumulated amortization related goodwill $ million arising prior the adoption SFAS . has been reflected the gross carrying amount goodwill September , and September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Other acquired intangible assets amortization Acquired technology amortization \x97 Total amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share adjusted exclude amortization goodwill fiscal periods prior follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss), reported $ $ ( ) $ Add: goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Net income (loss), adjusted $ $ ( ) $ Basic earnings (loss) per share, reported $ $ ( ) $ Add: goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Basic earnings (loss) per share, adjusted $ $ ( ) $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share, reported $ $ ( ) $ Add: goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share, adjusted $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition Emagic During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ million which was paid immediately upon closing the deal and $ million which was held-back for future payment contingent continued employment certain employees that will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. The acquisition has been accounted for purchase. The portion the purchase price allocated purchased -process research and development (IPR& ) was expensed immediately, and the portion the purchase price allocated ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' acquired technology and tradename will amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Acquired technology Tradename -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts include finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Acquisition certain assets Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail During fiscal the Company acquired certain technology and patent rights Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail Corporation for total $ million cash. These transactions have been accounted for asset acquisitions. The purchase price for these asset acquisitions, except for $ million identified contingent consideration which will allocated compensation expense over the next years, has been allocated acquired technology and will amortized straight-line basis over years, except for certain assets acquired from Zayante associated with patent royalty streams that will amortized over years. Acquisition Nothing Real, LLC During the second quarter , the Company acquired certain assets Nothing Real, LLC (Nothing Real), privately-held company that develops and markets high performance tools designed for the digital image creation market. the $ million purchase price, the Company has allocated $ million acquired technology, which will amortized over its estimated life years. The remaining $ million, which has been identified contingent consideration, rather than recorded additional component the cost the acquired assets, will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. Acquisition Spruce Technologies, Inc. July , the Company acquired Spruce Technologies, Inc. (Spruce), privately-held company that develops and markets DVD authoring products, for $ million cash. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Spruce not subject amortization pursuant the transition provisions SFAS . . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The consolidated financial statements include the operating results Spruce from the date acquisition. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible liabilities assumed $ ( ) Identifiable intangible assets Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool), provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enables schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track their children\' progress. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results PowerSchool from the date acquisition. The purchase price approximately $ million consisted the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock with fair value $ million, the issuance stock options with fair value $ million, and $ , direct transaction costs. The fair value the common stock options issued was determined using Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: volatility %, expected life years, dividend rate %, and risk-free rate %. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Deferred stock compensation Identifiable intangible assets -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. The acquired intangibles are being amortized over their estimated useful lives three years, respectively. Deferred stock compensation associated with restricted stock and options being amortized over the required future vesting period three years. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the fourth quarter , adjustment was made increase goodwill associated with the acquisition PowerSchool $ million due the identification previously unidentified loss contingencies that were existence prior consummation the acquisition. Acquisition-Related Deferred Stock Compensation The Company allocated $ million its purchase consideration for PowerSchool acquisition-related deferred stock compensation within shareholders\' equity. This amount represents the intrinsic value stock options assumed that vest future services are provided employees and related , common shares issued contingent continued employment certain PowerSchool employee stockholders. Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited pro forma financial information below presents the condensed consolidated financial results the Company assuming that PowerSchool and Spruce, acquired , had been acquired the beginning and includes the effect amortization goodwill and other acquired identifiable intangible assets from that date. The impact the charge for IPR& associated with the acquisition PowerSchool has been excluded. This pro forma financial information presented for informational purposes only and not necessarily indicative the results future operations that would have been achieved had the acquisitions taken place the beginning . Pro forma information follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ Basic earnings (loss) per common share $ ( ) $ Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Special Charges Restructuring Actions Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs Corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily Corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. September , , substantially all the $ million accrual had been utilized, except for insignificant severance and related costs associated with the remaining positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions will result the elimination approximately positions worldwide, which were eliminated September , , cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. the original $ million restructuring charge made during the first quarter , approximately $ million had been spent September , and approximately $ , was reversed during the second quarter due lower actual costs than originally estimated for certain lease commitments and severance benefits. The remaining $ million accrual relates primarily future payments abandoned operating leases. Restructuring Actions During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. the $ million accrued for severance, $ million had been spent before the end , and the remainder was spent . the $ million accrued for the write-off various assets, substantially all was utilized before the end . Executive Bonus During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which was not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge for the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. the fourth quarter , all significant work and payments associated with the aircraft were complete. the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent the end fiscal and was reversed. Technology Acquisition discussed Note , during both and its acquisition Emagic and PowerSchool, respectively, the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. This resulted the recognition purchased -process research and development the amount $ , for Emagic and $ million for PowerSchool, which was charged operations upon acquisition. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Federal: Current $ $ ( ) $ Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) State: Current \x97 \x97 Deferred ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million and $ billion , , and , respectively. September , , approximately half the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Available-for-sale securities Other Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset (liability) $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . These carryforwards are comprised remaining operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Computed expected tax (benefit) $ $ ( ) $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries \x97 \x97 ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation ( ) \x97 Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions \x97 Change valuation allowance ( ) \x97 ( ) Research & development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible expenses \x97 Other items ( ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ $ ( ) $ Effective tax rate % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed audits the Company\' federal income tax returns through . Substantially all IRS audit issues for years through have been resolved. The IRS currently auditing the Company\' federal income tax returns for fiscal years through . Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During , the Company repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. The Company engaged transactions relating the stock repurchase plan fiscal . Since inception the repurchase plan, the Company has repurchased committed repurchase total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Preferred Stock August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. These shares were convertible Microsoft after August , , into shares the Company\' common stock conversion price $ per share. During , , shares preferred stock were converted million shares the Company\' common stock. During , the remaining , preferred shares were converted into million shares the Company\' common stock. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Comprehensive Income The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income, net taxes, ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Unrealized gains available-for-sale securities $ $ $ Unrealized gains (losses) derivative investments ( ) \x97 Cumulative translation adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Less: adjustment for net (gains) losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million, $ million, $( ) million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains included net income was $ million, $ million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cumulative effect adopting SFAS . $ \x97 $ Changes fair value derivatives Less: adjustment for net gains realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivatives $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the cumulative effect adopting SFAS . was $( ) September , . The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $( ) million and $( ) million for fiscal and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains reclassified from OCI was $ million and $ million for fiscal and , respectively. Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Executive Officer Stock Plan The Executive Officer Stock Plan (the Plan) shareholder approved plan which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated April , the Stock Option Plan terminated October , and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan the Chairman the Board Directors, executive officers the Company the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Prior adoption the DSOP, , options were granted total two then-current members the Company\' Board Directors. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six-month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. During , , and , million, million and , shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Stock Option Activity summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , , September , and September , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The options outstanding September , , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted-Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding September , with weighted average exercise price $ . September , , the Company had exercisable options outstanding purchase million shares with weighted average exercise price $ . Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Expected life stock options years years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options % % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases % % % Volatility\x97stock options % % % Volatility\x97stock purchases % % % Dividend yields Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ $ ( ) $ Net income (loss)\x97pro forma $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Diluted $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, the majority which occurs various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Contingencies Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The parliament the European Union working finalizing the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (the Directive). The Directive makes producers electrical goods, including personal computers, financially responsible for the collection, recycling, and safe disposal past and future products. The Directive must now approved and implemented individual European Union governments June , while the producers\' financial obligations are scheduled start June . The Company\' potential liability resulting from the Directive related past sales its products and expenses associated with future sales its product may substantial. However, because likely that specific laws, regulations, and enforcement policies will vary significantly between individual European member states, not currently possible estimate the Company\' existing liability future expenses resulting from the Directive. the European Union and its individual member states clarify specific requirements and policies with respect the Directive, the Company will continue assess its potential financial impact. Similar legislation may enacted other geographies, including federal and state legislation the United States, the cumulative impact which could significant. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar products and services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note , except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes revenue from third-parties, cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress which not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million and $ million . Operating income for all segments except Retail includes cost sales standard cost. Certain manufacturing expenses and related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. assess the operating performance the Retail segment several significant items are included its results for internal management reporting that are not included results the Company\' other segments. First, cost sales for the Retail segment includes mark- above the Company\' standard cost approximate the price normally charged the Company\' major channel partners the United States. For the twelve-month period ended September , and September , , this resulted the recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million and $ million, respectively. Second, the Retail segment includes its net sales proceeds from sales the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts. This treatment consistent with how the Company\' major channel partners account for the sale the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts. Because the revenue from these contracts has yet earned the Company, offset this amount reflected decrease other segments\' net sales. For the twelve-month period ended September , , this resulted the recognition additional net sales the Retail segment, and offsetting reduction other segments\' net sales $ million. This amount was insignificant . Third, portion the operating expenses associated with certain high profile retail stores are allocated from the Retail segment corporate marketing expense. Allocation these expenses reflects the unique nature these stores which, given their larger size and extraordinary design elements, function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' awareness. Allocated operating costs are those excess operating costs incurred one the Company\' more typical retail locations. Stores were open two such high profile locations New York and Los Angeles September , , both which were opened fiscal . Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these two stores was $ million . Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ $ \x97 Operating income $ ( ) $ ( ) \x97 Depreciation and amortization( ) $ $ \x97 Segment assets( ) $ $ \x97 Other Segment: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income, and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Segment operating income $ $ $ , Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchased -process research and development ( ) ( ) \x97 Restructuring costs ( ) \x97 ( ) Executive bonus \x97 ( ) Consolidated operating income $ $ ( ) $ Segment assets $ $ $ , Corporate assets $ , $ , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Corporate depreciation and amortization Consolidated depreciation and amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. During , single distributor, Ingram Micro Inc. accounted for approximately % the Company\' net sales. Net sales during Ingram Micro Inc. the Americas and Europe segments were $ million and $ million, respectively. Net sales Ingram Micro Inc. all other segments were $ million. other single customer accounted for more than % net sales . single customer accounted for more than % net sales . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: United States $ , $ , $ , Japan , Other Foreign Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: United States $ $ $ Japan Other Foreign Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: Power Macintosh( ) $ , $ , $ , PowerBook iMac , , , iBook Software, Service, and Other Net Sales , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes server sales and amounts previously reported Cube. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Earnings Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share ( thousands, except net income (loss) and per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE For the Years Ended September , September , September , Numerator ( millions): Income (loss) before accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive securities: Convertible preferred stock \x97 \x97 , Dilutive options , \x97 , Dilutive potential common shares , \x97 , Denominator for diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , Basic earnings (loss) per share before accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x97 $ \x97 Basic earnings (loss) per share after accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share before accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x97 $ \x97 Diluted earnings (loss) per share after accounting change $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Options purchase million shares common stock were outstanding the end that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share for that year because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for that year and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. September , , the Company had options purchase million shares its common stock outstanding, all which were excluded from the computation diluted loss per share for because the effect would have been antidilutive. Options purchase million shares common stock were outstanding the end that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share for that year because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for that year and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. Note \x97Related Party Transactions . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (" MicroWarehouse ") January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company, through its MacWarehouse catalog. MicroWarehouse accounted for % and % the Company\' net sales and , respectively. Trade receivables from MicroWarehouse were $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. These receivables are subject the same credit risk the Company\' other trade receivables. addition, the Company purchases miscellaneous equipment and supplies from MicroWarehouse. Total purchases amounted approximately $ million and $ million . March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during and . connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail, $ million for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ ( ) $ $ $ Diluted $ ( ) $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ ( ) Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income for the fourth quarter included several non-recurring items, net tax: the write-down certain equity investments totaling $ million; restructuring charge $ million; -process research and development charge approximately $ million; and the reversal portion previous ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' executive compensation expense resulting favorable impact $ million. Net income for the first quarter included restructuring charge, net tax, $ million. Net income during the first quarter also included gains, net tax, $ million related non-current investments. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after-tax net gains related non-current investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Net income for the third quarter included after-tax charge for purchased IPR& $ million associated with the Company\' acquisition PowerSchool. Net income for the first quarter includes after-tax favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment for the adoption SFAS . $ million. Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for goodwill and changed its method accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . User-specified TAGGED TABLE KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Mountain View, California October , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EM2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' five directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. (Intuit) since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation and Loudcloud, Inc. Millard . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . also served the President the Gap Division from . Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ( NeXT ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. ( Genentech ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . Jerome . York Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micro Warehouse, Inc. Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer, Inc. September , Lawrence . Ellison resigned director. . Ellison had served director since . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors. " ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Fred . Anderson , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc., position held from August March . . Anderson also serves director 3Com Corporation. Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ( Compaq ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing ( ADP ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the " SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the Named Executive Officers ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer , , , , ( ) ( ) , , \x97 , , , , , , \x97 ( ) ( ) Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Software Engineering , , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for serving the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer for past services, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . This amount was previously reported bonus for fiscal year the Company\' Form - and Proxy Statement. Because the aircraft was transferred . Jobs , the amount approximately $ million paid the Company during fiscal year towards the purchase the plane and the related tax assistance approximately $ million was reported income . Jobs. fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. Accordingly, the $ million previously reported bonus has been removed from the table above, and the amounts reported taxable income . Jobs related the aircraft during each fiscal and reported compensation. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) special executive bonus was given . Cook for accepting the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Service & Support addition holding the position Senior Vice President Operations. January , . Cook was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations. ( ) Patent award. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Option Grants Last Fiscal Year The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR User-specified TAGGED TABLE Individual Grants Number Securities Underlying Options Granted (#) Percent Total Options Granted Employees Fiscal Year( ) Potential Realizable Value Assumed Annual Rates Stock Price Appreciation for Option Term( ) Name Exercise Base Price ($/ )( ) Expiration Date % ($) % ($) Steven . Jobs , , % $ $ , , $ , , Fred . Anderson \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Avadis Tevanian, . \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options granted fiscal year typically vest over four years sixteen equal quarterly increments. Options granted executive officers including those granted the Named Executive Officers typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. the options granted . Jobs, % were vested the date grant and the remainder vest three equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($)( ) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , , ( ) , , $ , $ Fred . Anderson , $ , , , , , $ $ Timothy . Cook , $ , , , , , $ $ Jonathan Rubinstein \x97 \x97 , , , , $ , , $ Avadis Tevanian, . , $ , , , , , , $ , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. Director Compensation , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the Director Plan ). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ( Initial Options ). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ( Annual Options ). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler and Arthur . Levinson, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. During fiscal , William . Campbell, Arthur . Levinson and Jerome . York served members the Compensation Committee, none whom were employees the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. During fiscal year , . Jobs served director Gap Inc. ("Gap") (though not the compensation committee that board directors) and . Drexler served director the Company. . Jobs resigned director Gap September . . Drexler resigned president and CEO Gap September and resigned ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' director Gap October . Subsequently, November , . York resigned from the committee, and . Drexler was appointed member the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. Security Ownership Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Lord, Abbett & , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , ( ) * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Jonathan Rubinstein , , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F- filed October , Lord, Abbett & ., Fith Avenue, New York, . ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Cook has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock which . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans (shares thousands). User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , $ , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , $ , ( ) Total equity compensation plans , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Executive Officer Stock Plan. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) Reflects shares authorized for future issuance under the Employee Stock Option Plan. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. ( MicroWarehouse ) January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. The Company also purchases products from MicroWarehouse for its own internal use. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during and . Item . Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management date within days the filing date this Annual Report Form - , the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ( Exchange Act ) are effective ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' There were significant changes the Company\' internal controls other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent the date their evaluation. There were significant deficiencies material weaknesses, and therefore there were corrective actions taken. However, the design any system controls based part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood future events and there certainty that any design will succeed achieving its stated goal under all potential future considerations, regardless how remote. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Exhibits ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company filed part this report Form - are set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - . . Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto under Part , Item this Form - . . Exhibits The following exhibits are filed part this Form - . User-specified TAGGED TABLE Exhibit Number Description ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent KPMG LLP Certificate Apple Computer, Inc. Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - August , , report that the Company had submitted the Securities and Exchange Commission the Statements under Oath Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer accordance with the SEC\' June , Order requiring the filing sworn statements pursuant Section ( )( ) the Securities and Exchange Act . The Company filed current report Form - August , , report the filing SEC Form Statement Changes Beneficial Ownership filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . Arthur Levinson August , . ( ) Exhibits Incorporated Reference User-specified TAGGED TABLE Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the Indenture"). insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 99K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through October , . 97K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Director Stock Option Plan. ** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through April , . ** Reimbursement Agreement. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 02K Power Attorney. end user-specified TAGGED TABLE * Notes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' User-specified TAGGED TABLE NOTES - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . - - , - - , - , - Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 99K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 02K Incorporated reference Page this Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 19th day December . User-specified TAGGED TABLE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Title Date / / STEVEN . JOBS STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) December , / / FRED . ANDERSON FRED . ANDERSON Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) December , / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL WILLIAM . CAMPBELL Director December , / / MILLARD . DREXLER MILLARD . DREXLER Director December , / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ARTHUR . LEVINSON Director December , / / JEROME . YORK JEROME . YORK Director December , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JC2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT , Steven . Jobs, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Apple Computer, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\' disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\' auditors and the audit committee registrant\' board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\' ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\' auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\' internal controls; and . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether not there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. December , User-specified TAGGED TABLE : / / STEVEN . JOBS Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JE2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' , Fred . Anderson, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Apple Computer, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\' disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\' auditors and the audit committee registrant\' board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\' ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\' auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\' internal controls; and . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether not there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. December , User-specified TAGGED TABLE : / / FRED . ANDERSON Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JE2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN SEQ=,FILE=\'QUICKLINK\',USER=MWORTHY,SEQ=,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" " TOCEXISTFLA', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, and the Asia Pacific region. Leased space the United States includes , square feet retail space. Leases are generally for terms years, and usually provide renewal options for terms additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento and Cork facilities also house customer support call centers. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject certain legal proceedings and claims, including those described below, which have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. Information regarding the risks and potential financial impact these legal matters set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Commitments and Contingencies." Articulate Systems, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Articulate filed this action March the United States District Court Massachusetts claiming patent infringement relating voice recognition technology. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The case was stayed for several months pending resolution four summary judgment motions filed the Company, all which were denied the Court. Through series corporate transactions the assets belonging Plaintiff were acquired subsidiary, Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products . (" & "). & filed for bankruptcy November and being liquidated part the bankruptcy. The case currently stayed pending the resolution the liquidation. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Bancroft . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Bancroft filed this purported class action January , Los Angeles Superior Court behalf potentially nationwide class purchasers certain Power Macintosh computers. Plaintiff alleges violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act ("CLRA") arising from allegedly poor performance while running the Company\' Mac operating system, specifically relating hardware acceleration, QuickTime movie hardware acceleration, graphics performance and DVD movie playback. Plaintiff seeks actual damages, injunctive relief, restitution, punitive damages, attorneys\' fees and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The parties participated mediation October without resolution. The parties are discovery. BIAX Corporation . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff BIAX filed this action September , the United States District Court Delaware claiming patent infringement relating dual processor technology. IBM and Motorola were added defendants amended complaint. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity. The parties are discovery. Dynacore Holdings Corp. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Dynacore filed this action June , United States District Court for the Southern District New York against the Company and thirteen other defendants claiming patent infringement relating IEEE technology, also known FireWire. Plaintiff claims that any computer system other electronic product that uses complies with the IEEE standard violates the patent. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement and invalidity. Defendants are seeking amend the pleading assert counterclaim for inequitable conduct against Dynacore. The case was stayed pending the Federal Circuit\' decision Datapoint Corp. . Standard Microsystems Corp ., related case which plaintiff claimed that its patent was infringed products complying with the fast Ethernet standard. February , the Federal Circuit affirmed the judgment non-infringement Datapoint, and the District Court lifted the stay this action. The defendants filed joint motion for summary judgment based upon the decision Datapoint. The Court heard the motion October , and has not yet issued its ruling. Elonex Holdings Ltd., EIP Licensing, . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this action February , the United States District Court Delaware claiming patent infringement relating low power consumption monitor standby system. Plaintiffs filed numerous identical lawsuits against other computer monitor manufacturers and computer systems manufacturers. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity the patents issue. The parties reached settlement July . Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. FTC Inquiry\x96Prado . Apple Computer, Inc. (and related actions) October , Apple began charging all . non-education customers for live telephone technical support beyond days after purchase Apple products. late , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) commenced investigation into customer complaints that Apple\' change technical support practices was either unfair contrary earlier representations certain customers. Four purported class action lawsuits were filed against Apple related this change. During the fourth quarter , the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' regional and national offices the FTC approved settlement with the Company, and settlement was approved the Court three the class action suits. November , two appeals were filed objecting the settlement. The California Court Appeal upheld the settlement, and the California Supreme Court denied review the Court Appeal\' decision. further appeals were taken and the Company administering the settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Hawaii Structural Iron Workers and Pension Trust Fund . Apple Computer, Inc. and Steven . Jobs; Young . Apple Computer, Inc. ; Hsu . Apple Computer Inc. Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. Pierce . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Pierce filed this action June , Santa Clara County Superior Court. This case was purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf purchasers the Company\' AirPort Card and AirPort Base Station ("AirPort System"). Plaintiffs alleged that the Company engaged false advertising and unfair business practices (among other causes action) advertising that the AirPort System Internet-ready and failing disclose that the AirPort System incompatible with certain Internet service providers, primarily America Online. The Company answered the complaint, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The parties reached settlement that received final approval the Court October , . The Company administering the settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. Pitney Bowes Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Pitney Bowes filed this patent infringement action June , the United States District Court Connecticut alleging patent infringement relating laser printer technology. Plaintiff has filed similar lawsuits against other companies. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, unenforceability and invalidity the patents issue. The Connecticut Court transferred this case the Eastern District Kentucky February , and consolidated the case with two other lawsuits, declaratory judgment action filed Xerox and Pitney Bowes\' patent infringement case against Epson. The case set for trial June , . Sternberg . Apple Computer, Inc. and Gordon . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Sternberg filed this action against the Company March , the Santa Clara County Superior Court. The case was purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf purchasers iMac and iMac computers. Plaintiff alleged that Apple engaged false advertising, unfair competition and breach warranty, among other causes action, marketing and selling DVD player with iMac and iMac computers where the playback was unacceptable. companion case, Gordon . . Apple Computer, Inc . was filed largely the same plaintiffs June , . This case was essentially the same Sternberg but with respect different computer model\x97the Power Macintosh . The Company answered both complaints, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The parties reached settlement August that received final ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' approval the Court February , . The Company administering the settlement. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\' financial position results operations. UNOVA, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiff UNOVA filed this patent infringement action against the Company and six other defendants May , the Central District California for infringement eight UNOVA patents related "Smart Battery Management". Plaintiff alleges that the Company\' portable computers manufactured since infringe these eight patents. Plaintiff has filed similar lawsuits against other companies addition the -defendants this case. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counterclaims requesting declaratory judgment for non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 5. ': "Market for the Registrant' Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters The Company' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All share price and per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt $ $ $ $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\' equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE net loss before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million was recognized . Net gains before taxes related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. , the Company acquired Emagic resulting charge approximately ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. The Company recognized similar charge $ million related its acquisition PowerSchool. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent and was reversed. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\' discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations requires the Company\' management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Item this Form - describe the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\' consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions that believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management believes the following critical accounting policies. That , they are both important the portrayal the Company\' financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , Revenue Recognition Financial Statements . SAB , amended, summarizes certain the SEC\' views applying generally accepted accounting principles revenue recognition financial statements and provides guidance revenue recognition issues the absence authoritative literature addressing specific arrangement specific industry. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. Revenue multiple element sales arrangements allocated various elements based vendor specific objective evidence the fair value each element the transaction and recognized each element delivered. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result incremental reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible, the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Europe, Asia, and Latin America. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\' assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible. The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic environment, the financial condition the Company\' distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\' financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments are made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each period that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product lifecycle status, product development plans, and component cost trends. The personal computer industry subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence. future demand market conditions for the Company\' products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs are made. The Company accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees related component orders that have been canceled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These formal and informal commitments typically cover the Company\' requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\' products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\' products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees, negatively affecting gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Valuation Long-Lived Assets Including Acquired Intangibles The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount such asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. such assets are considered ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' impaired, the impairment recognized earnings equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds their fair market value. Although the Company has recognized material impairment adjustments related its property, plant, and equipment identifiable intangibles during the past three fiscal years, except those made conjunction with restructuring actions, deterioration the Company\' business geographic region business segment the future, including deterioration the performance individual retail stores, could lead such impairment adjustments the future periods which such business issues are identified. September , , the Company had $ million goodwill. The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . result, the Company longer amortizes goodwill but instead performs review goodwill for impairment annually, earlier indicators potential impairment exist. The review goodwill for potential impairment highly subjective and requires that: ( ) goodwill allocated various business units the Company\' business which relates; ( ) the Company estimate the fair value those business units which the goodwill relates; and ( ) the Company determine the book value those business units. the estimated fair value business units with allocated goodwill determined less than their book value, the Company required estimate the fair value all identifiable assets and liabilities those business units manner similar purchase price allocation for acquired business. This requires independent valuation certain internally developed and unrecognized assets including -process research and development and developed technology. Once this process complete, the amount goodwill impairment, any, can determined. Based the Company\' estimates September , , there was impairment goodwill. However, changes various circumstances including changes the Company\' market capitalization, changes the Company\' forecasts, and changes the Company\' internal business structure could cause one more the Company\' business units valued differently thereby causing impairment goodwill. Additionally, response changes the personal computer industry and changes global regional economic conditions, the Company may strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing , otherwise exiting businesses, which could result impairment property, plant, and equipment, identifiable intangibles, goodwill. Valuation Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments September , , the Company held investments certain debt and equity securities with combined carrying value $ million. These investments, which are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments, have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes impairment charge earnings when judged investment has experienced decline value that other-than-temporary. The Company has recognized material impairment charges related its non-current debt and equity investments two quarters during the last two fiscal years. Various factors are considered determining whether decline value other-than-temporary, including the length time and extent which the investment\' market value has been less than its cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects the issuer, and the Company\' intent and ability hold the investment for period time sufficient allow for any anticipated recovery market value. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments are public companies whose security prices are subject significant volatility. The Company recognized pre-tax impairment loss $ million related two these investments the fourth quarter . result, September , , the Company had significant unrealized gains losses recorded against the carrying value its non-current debt and equity investments. Should the fair value these investments fall below the Company\' current cost bases and the financial condition prospects either company deteriorate, the Company may determine future period that such decline fair value other-than-temporary, ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' requiring impairment loss recognized the period such determination made. Additional information regarding these investments and potential charges related their impairment may found below under the caption "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales for geographic segments and product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change Change Americas net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Europe net sales , % , ( )% , Japan net sales % ( )% , Retail net sales \x97 \x97 \x97 Other segments net sales % ( )% Total net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Americas Macintosh unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , Europe Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% , Japan Macintosh unit sales ( )% ( )% Retail Macintosh unit sales \x97 \x97 \x97 Other segments Macintosh unit sales % ( )% Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Power Macintosh net sales ( ) $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , PowerBook net sales % ( )% iMac net sales , % , ( )% , iBook net sales % % Software, Service, and Other net sales , % ( )% , Total net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Power Macintosh unit sales ( ) ( )% ( )% , PowerBook unit sales % ( )% iMac unit sales , % , ( )% , iBook unit sales % % Total Macintosh unit sales , % , ( )% , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes server sales and amounts previously reported Power Macintosh Cube. ( ) Based net sales associated with Macintosh units and total Macintosh units sold. Net sales increased $ million % during compared , while Macintosh unit sales were relatively flat year-over-year approximately million units. geographic basis, performance the domestic market was relatively strong, especially when considering the performance the Company\' Retail segment which currently operates exclusively the United States. However, the European and Japanese markets remained sluggish throughout . The Company\' net sales were positively influenced number factors. First, net sales from software, service, and other sources rose $ million % versus . This increase was driven several factors including % increase combined third-party and Apple- ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' branded software sales; $ million net sales iPod, the Company\' portable digital music player that was introduced the first half ; % increase the sale computer accessories; and % increase service revenue caused primarily increased revenue associated with extended maintenance and support contracts. The growth software revenue was primarily the result increased sales third-party software the Company\' retail and online stores and expansion recent years the number Apple-branded software titles. Second, overall unit sales Macintosh portable systems grew , units % reflecting general trend the personal computer market away from desktop systems towards portable systems. During , portable Macintosh systems represented % total systems sales versus % and % . Growth this area has been most pronounced for iBook, the Company\' education and consumer oriented portable Macintosh system. iBook unit sales increased % and % . Third, the Company\' Retail segment grew from stores the end stores the end . The Retail segment\' net sales grew from $ million $ million . While the Retail segment may cannibalize some net sales from the Company\' preexisting sales channels the ., the Company does believe that substantial portion the Retail segment\' net sales are incremental the Company\' total net sales. See additional comments below related the Retail segment under the heading "Segment Operating Performance." Fourth, the Company\' average unit pricing remained relatively stable during result various changes overall unit mix offset somewhat lower pricing year-over-year comparative Macintosh systems. Net sales per Macintosh unit sold during $ , per unit reflects the shift mix towards relatively higher-priced portable Macintosh systems and reflects the impact net sales the relatively higher-priced new iMac design introduced during . The impact these changes mix were offset the decline unit sales relatively higher-priced Power Macintosh systems and lower pricing comparative Macintosh systems during for most the Company\' Macintosh product lines response industry pricing pressure. Fifth, any comparison net sales versus must consider the effect unusually low net sales during the first quarter . discussed below, this was attributable several factors the beginning , including continuing deterioration worldwide demand for personal computers, rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during that quarter that cost the Company approximately $ million, and plan implemented the Company during the first quarter reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels that resulted decline channel inventory approximately , units during that quarter. Net sales during the first quarter are discussed more detail below. Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\' net sales were negatively impacted several notable factors. First, unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared . This followed % decline Power Macintosh unit sales from . The Company continues believe that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers and that many these customers continue delay upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac , its new operating system, and anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their Macintosh applications run natively Mac . Further, the Company did not experience the anticipated increase Power Macintosh sales that expected following the introduction Adobe\' PhotoShop during . Additionally, many professional users may have postponed upgrading their systems until after the introduction Mac Jaguar released the fourth quarter . Others may have delayed upgrading until after the availability other professionally oriented software applications for Mac such QuarkXpress. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DI2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Second, despite the overall increase net sales during the Americas, the Company continues see weakness its . education channel. Total net sales this channel fell % and % . These declines are consistent with industry data that shows the Company losing market share the . education market each the last two fiscal years. The Company believes this weakness has been caused multiple factors, including increased price competition this price sensitive market from the Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers. Additionally, some the Company\' education customers appear delaying technology purchases due concerns about the overall impact the weaker economy their available funding. The Company continues take steps address weakness the . education channel. However, difficult anticipate how this trend will affect fiscal and anticipate when and this trend will reverse. Third, the personal computer industry general and the Company specifically continue see relatively soft demand for its products. Despite overall increase unit sales consumer oriented Macintosh systems during , consumer sales remain far below levels experienced and earlier. Worsening global economic conditions over the past three years exacerbated the economic and political uncertainties caused terrorist activities and the associated international responses have clearly had pronounced negative effect the overall demand for the Company\' products virtually all its markets. Further, growth the overall personal computer industry has been slowed due the high market penetration personal computers and lengthening consumer, creative, and business personal computer upgrade cycles. short, the Company believes that expansion the overall market for personal computers has for the most part stalled and that growth awaits combination economic recovery and technological advancements. Net sales decreased $ billion % during compared , while Macintosh unit sales fell % from . Demand for all the Company\' products all the Company\' geographic operating segments was negatively impacted throughout unfavorable global economic conditions. year-over-year basis, net sales and Macintosh unit sales were down all the Company\' geographic operating segments, and net sales and unit sales product were down for each Macintosh product category except iBook. addition general economic conditions, two other primary factors contributed the decline net sales during . First, discussed below, the Company executed plan during the first three quarters reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels. result these efforts, the Company\' Macintosh channel inventory fell approximately , units during the first nine months . Second, the Company believes that many its professional users were delaying upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac , its new operating system, and anticipation software vendors transitioning their Mac applications run natively Mac . Several positive factors combined partially mitigate the overall decline net sales during . The net sales per Macintosh unit sold remained relatively strong during after adjusting for the $ million impact net sales the rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during the first quarter , falling only about % from . The relatively strong per unit sales reflects somewhat lower year-over-year pricing comparative systems, offset shift overall sales mix toward higher-priced portable systems. Also, the Company experienced very little shift the mix overall combined unit sales relatively lower-priced consumer and education Macintosh systems, iMac and iBook, and their higher-priced professionally oriented equivalents. Combined unit sales iMac and iBook systems accounted for % total Macintosh unit sales and % . Second, combined unit sales portable systems, iBook and PowerBook, actually rose % during despite the negative economic climate and the overall decline unit sales. Not only does this increase portable system sales reflect general industry shift toward portable systems, also specifically attributable the strong demand for redesigned iBooks introduced during the third quarter and for the Titanium PowerBook which was introduced during the second quarter . Third, small decline net sales ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the . education market during compared was partially mitigated % increase . education unit sales during . First quarter net sales decreased % $ billion compared the same quarter and decreased % from the fourth quarter . Both the year-over-year and sequential declines net sales during the first quarter were attributable several factors, including continued deterioration worldwide demand for personal computers and rebate programs and price cuts instituted the Company during the quarter that cost the Company approximately $ million. addition, the Company implemented plan during the first quarter reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels from the amounts the end fiscal lower levels the end the first quarter . The Company ended fiscal with substantially more inventory its distribution channels than planned due the lower than expected sell-through the Company\' products during the fourth quarter that year. The Company reduced Macintosh channel inventory during the first quarter approximately , units. These factors contributed the % year-over-year decline during the first quarter total Macintosh unit sales that were experienced across the Company\' entire product line. These factors also reduced the net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( function total net sales associated with Macintosh units and total Macintosh CPU unit sales) during the first quarter $ , , decline approximately % from the same period . Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable operating segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the Company\' Retail segment. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data." Americas Net sales for the Americas segment increased % $ million . discussed above, the Americas segment was negatively affected decline . education sales $ million. The Americas segment also experienced % decline Power Macintosh unit sales. However, outside the . education channel, unit sales consumer desktop and portable systems rebounded from the substantial declines experienced , rising combined % . Sales software, peripherals, and accessories were also the Americas during . Growth unit sales consumer oriented systems during the Americas somewhat attributable the significantly depressed level net sales experienced the first quarter discussed above. However, growth the Americas was somewhat negatively affected, particularly with respect consumer-oriented systems, the significant growth the Company\' Retail segment the . More than % the Retail segment\' Macintosh unit sales during were for iMacs and iBooks. The Americas segment\' net sales and unit sales declined % and %, respectively, from . The operating performance the Americas segment for reflects the Company\' overall performance characterized significant declines year-over-year quarterly net sales and units sales, particularly during the first quarter and particularly consumer channels, with sequential increases unit sales and net sales during each the last three quarters . Net sales the Americas segment during were also negatively affected the Company\' overall reduction channel inventories during the year. Consumer sales the Americas were particularly hard hit current economic conditions. Outside the . education channel, unit sales the Company\' consumer oriented iMac fell % . The effect falling consumer demand the Americas segment was partially offset strong . education sales. The Company\' unit sales . education markets rose % driven the acceptance the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company\' new portable products, particularly the iBook, and reflect general shift demand the . education market towards portable versus desktop systems. Portable systems accounted for % total unit sales the Company\' . education market compared % during . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\' total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. Europe Economic conditions Europe remained weak throughout , and the overall demand for the Company\' products that region remained flat during versus . Unit sales Europe for reflect relatively stronger demand for consumer-oriented products, particularly iBook whose unit sales increased % , offset declines Power Macintosh unit sales. Net sales Europe fell $ million % during compared , while Europe\' unit sales fell %. Europe\' results reflect the worsening economic climate Europe the latter half and reductions channel inventories experienced the Company\' other geographic operating segments. Combined unit sales the Company\' consumer oriented products Europe were particularly impacted during , falling % from . Japan Net sales Japan remained flat during versus , with slight decline unit sales %. Consistent with the Company\' other geographic operating segments, during Japan showed growth unit sales consumer systems and decline unit sales Power Macintosh systems. Japan\' iMac unit sales increased % . However, the case Japan the increase iMac unit shipments versus was primarily the result the unusually depressed level net sales experienced the Company the first quarter discussed above. Additionally, net sales Japan sequential and year-over-year comparative basis generally worsened progressed reflecting particularly poor economic conditions that currently exist Japan. Net sales and unit sales Japan fell % and %, respectively, versus . Although unit sales and net sales Japan have generally trended upwards progressed, the Japan segment has been particularly affected current unfavorable economic conditions. Reflecting the continuing harsh consumer climate Japan, the Japan segment\' combined unit sales iMacs and iBooks during were down % from , and professionally oriented systems unit sales fell %. Retail the end September , the Company had retail stores operating the United States, which were opened during fiscal . The Company has opened additional stores during the first quarter . During , approximately % the Retail segment\' net sales came from the sale Apple-branded and third-party peripherals and software. This compares % for the Company whole. With average stores open, the Retail segment achieved average annualized revenue per store during the fourth quarter approximately $ million and had approximately million visitors. The Retail segment reported loss for all $ million, and loss for the fourth quarter $ million. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment totaled $ million and $ million . September , , the Retail segment had employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate its Retail segment close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Investment ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' new business model such the Retail segment inherently risky, particularly light the significant investment involved, the current economic climate, and the fixed nature substantial portion the Retail segment\' operating expenses. Results for this segment are dependent upon number risks and uncertainties, some which are discussed below under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Backlog the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over-ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog cannot considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found below under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Gross Margin Gross margin for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gross margin increased % net sales from % . discussed below, gross margin was unusually low resulting from negative gross margin % experienced the first quarter . percentage net sales, the Company\' quarterly gross margins declined during fiscal from % the first quarter down % the fourth quarter. This decline resulted from several factors including rise component costs the year progressed and aggressive pricing the Company across its products lines instituted result continued pricing pressures the personal computer industry. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margin the overall personal computer industry will remain under pressure throughout fiscal light weak economic conditions, flat demand for personal computers general, and the resulting pressure prices. The foregoing statements regarding anticipated gross margin and the general demand for personal computers during are forward-looking. Gross margin could differ from anticipated levels because several factors, including certain those set forth below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." There can assurance that current gross margins will maintained, targeted gross margin levels will achieved, current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin declined % net sales from % . This decline resulted primarily from gross margin negative % experienced during the first quarter compared % gross margin for the same quarter . addition lower than normal net sales, first quarter margins were negatively impacted the rebate programs and price cuts discussed above that decreased revenue approximately $ million. Additionally, actual and forecasted declines net sales caused the Company recognize during the first quarter approximately $ million charges associated with purchase order cancellations and loss commitments for component purchases. Without these charges, gross margin for the first quarter would have been approximately %, and gross margin for all would have been approximately %. percentage net sales, the Company\' gross margin increased each quarter progressed reaching % during the fourth quarter. This pattern reflects the favorable impact during declining component costs, especially for DRAM, hard drives, and flat panel screens. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions, except for percentages): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Research and Development ( & ) The Company recognizes that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. & expense increased % $ million $ million compared . This followed $ million % increase compared . The overall increase & expense over the last two years relates primarily increased & headcount and support for new product development activities. & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million associated with the development Mac Jaguar and approximately $ million associated with the new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. & spending also included capitalized software development costs approximately $ million associated with the development the original version Mac . Further information related the Company\' capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) & decreased $ million % during compared . The decrease & primarily the result lower discretionary spending marketing and advertising expenses, decreased spending related information systems, and benefits directly related the Company\' restructuring ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' actions and . These decreases were partially offset higher sales expense resulting from increased operating expenses associated with expansion the Company\' Retail segment. & expenditures decreased $ million % during compared . Declines & spending both and reflect the Company\' overall efforts stabilize and selectively reduce recurring & costs light lower net sales and reduce discretionary marketing and advertising expenses. Given current economic conditions and the Company\' continued strategic investments new product development and its Retail segment, the Company currently identifying additional opportunities make appropriate reductions & costs. Special Charges Included Operating Expenses Special charges included operating expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Restructuring costs $ \x97 $ Purchased -process research and development $ $ \x97 Executive bonus $ ( ) \x97 $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. Once fully implemented, the Company estimates these restructuring actions will result reduced quarterly operating expenses approximately $ million. the $ million restructuring charge for fiscal , $ million was incurred the fourth quarter related actions designed reduce headcount costs Corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. Headcount actions, primarily Corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development, resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool product that resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the product the amount $ million. The remaining charge $ million was incurred the first quarter and will ultimately result the elimination approximately positions worldwide, which were eliminated September , , cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. the total charge $ million, substantially all had been spent September , , except for approximately $ million related primarily future payments abandoned operating leases. Restructuring Actions During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. the $ million accrued for severance, $ million had been spent before the end , and the remainder was spent . the $ million accrued for the write-off various assets, substantially all was utilized before the end . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Purchased -Process Research and Development (IPR& ) During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ , which was allocated IPR& . The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts include finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool), provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enables schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track their children\' progress. total purchase consideration $ million, $ million was allocated IPR& and was expensed upon acquisition because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the PowerSchool product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed during , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Executive Bonus During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which was not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge was for the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. the fourth quarter , all significant work and payments associated with the aircraft were complete. the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent the end fiscal and was reversed. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for the three fiscal years ended September , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains (losses) non-current investments, net $ ( ) $ $ Unrealized loss convertible securities $ \x97 ( ) $ \x97 Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Miscellaneous other income and expense Interest and other income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Gains and Losses Non-current Investments Investments categorized non-current debt and equity investments the consolidated balance sheet are equity and debt instruments public companies. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments, and certain investments private companies carried other assets, have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. However, the Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. During , the Company determined that declines the fair value certain these investments were other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink, Inc. (EarthLink), $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment private company investment. These losses were partially offset the sale , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , the sale , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , , and the sale approximately million shares ARM Holdings plc (ARM) stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million, and sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds $ million and recorded gain before taxes $ million. These gains during were partially offset $ million charge earnings that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value the Company\' investment EarthLink and $ million charge that reflected other-than-temporary decline the fair value certain private company investments. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ million. The combined carrying value the Company\' investments EarthLink, Akamai, and ARM September , , was $ million. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Accounting for Derivatives and Cumulative Effect Accounting Change October , , the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million for the first quarter . The $ million gross transition adjustment was comprised $ million favorable adjustment for the restatement fair value the derivative component the Company\' investment Samsung Electronics ., Ltd. (Samsung), partially offset the unfavorable adjustments certain foreign currency and interest rate derivatives. SFAS . also required the Company adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung earnings during the first quarter , the before tax effect which was unrealized loss approximately $ million. Interest and Other Income, Net Net interest and other income was $ million fiscal , compared $ million fiscal . This $ million % decrease primarily the result declining investment yields the Company\' cash and short-term investments resulting from substantially lower market interest rates. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . Net interest and other income increased $ million % $ million during . The increase was due part interest income from higher cash and invested balances , partially offset declining interest rates and investment yields, and rebalancing the aggregate investment portfolio higher proportion lower risk and better credit investments. The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments fell % compared % . The Company expects interest and other income, net decline substantially declines interest rates continue impact earnings the Company\' investment portfolio. The Company\' expects this decline most pronounced the second half the fiscal year. The foregoing statements are forward-looking. Interest and other income, net could differ from expected levels because several factors, including certain those set forth below the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." Additionally, actual future interest and other income, net may significantly impacted unforeseen changes market interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and the fair value the Company\' short-term and long-term investments. Provision for Income Taxes The Company\' effective tax rate for was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily the research and development credit and the reversal valuation allowances. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed audits the Company\' federal income tax returns through . Substantially all IRS audit issues for years through have been resolved. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations , which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the asset. SFAS . requires that the fair value liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. The Company required adopt the provisions SFAS . for the first quarter its fiscal . Management does not expect the adoption SFAS . have material impact the Company\' financial statements. August , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Disposal Long-Lived Assets (Statement ), which supersedes both SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed and the accounting and reporting provisions APB Opinion . (Opinion ), Reporting the Results Operations\x97Reporting the Effects Disposal Segment Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions , for the disposal segment business ( previously defined that Opinion). SFAS . retains the fundamental provisions SFAS . for recognizing and measuring impairment losses long-lived assets held for use and long-lived assets disposed sale, while also resolving significant implementation issues associated with SFAS . . For example, SFAS . provides guidance how long-lived asset that used part group should evaluated for impairment, establishes criteria for when long-lived asset held for sale, and prescribes the accounting for long-lived asset that will disposed other than sale. SFAS . retains the basic provisions Opinion how present discontinued operations the income statement but broadens that presentation include component entity (rather than segment business). Unlike SFAS . , impairment assessment under SFAS . will never result write-down goodwill. Rather, goodwill evaluated for impairment under SFAS . . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The Company required adopt the provisions SFAS . for the first quarter its fiscal . Management does not expect the adoption SFAS . for long-lived assets held for use have material impact the Company\' financial statements because the impairment assessment under SFAS . largely unchanged from SFAS . . The provisions SFAS . for assets held for sale other disposal generally are required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated disposal activities. June , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities . SFAS . supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs Exit Activity (Including Certain Costs Associated with Restructuring) and requires that liability for cost associated with exit disposal activity recognized when the liability incurred, opposed when management committed exit plan. SFAS . also establishes that the liability should initially measured and recorded fair value. This Statement effective for exit disposal activities initiated after December , . The provisions SFAS . are required applied prospectively after the adoption date newly initiated exit activities, and may affect the timing recognizing future restructuring costs, well the amounts recognized. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DK2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, virtually unchanged from the end fiscal . The primary sources total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments fiscal were $ million cash generated operating activities and $ million proceeds from the exercise employee stock options, offset cash utilized for business and asset acquisitions $ million and capital expenditures $ million. The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases $ million, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Remaining terms the Company\' existing operating leases range from years. Subsequent September , , the Company entered into additional operating lease commitments for retail space with future lease commitments totaling $ million for periods ranging from years. Long-Term Debt The Company currently has long-term debt outstanding the form $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\' products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from months. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such formal and informal purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ million. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Capital Expenditures total capital expenditures $ million, $ million was for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\' Retail segment and $ million was for corporate infrastructure including information systems enhancements and operating facilities enhancements and expansions. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , approximately $ million which expected utilized for further expansion the Company\' Retail segment and the remainder utilized support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During and , the Company repurchased common shares. However, during the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. Since inception the repurchase plan, the Company has repurchased committed repurchase total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments The Company has held significant investments ARM, Samsung Electronics ., Ltd, Akamai, and EarthLink. These investments are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income. The combined fair value these investments was $ million, $ million, and $ million the end fiscal , , and , respectively. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. General economic conditions and current economic and political uncertainty could adversely affect the Company. The Company\' operating performance depends significantly general economic conditions. For much the past years, demand for the Company\' products has been negatively impacted worsening global economic conditions. Continued uncertainty about future economic conditions continues make difficult forecast future operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions fail improve continue deteriorate, demand for the Company\' products could continue adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The terrorist attacks that took place September , , disrupted commerce throughout the world and created many economic and political uncertainties that have had strong negative impact the global economy. The long-term effects the September , attacks the Company\' future operating results and financial condition remain unknown. The national and international responses terrorist attacks, the potential for future terrorist attacks and other acts hostility, and the potential for ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' war the Middle East have created economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. The market for personal computers highly competitive. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Over the past several years, price competition the market for personal computers has been particularly intense. The Company\' competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins order gain maintain market share response weakness demand for personal computing products that began the second half calendar . The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Additionally, several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce products that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. The Company has many substantial competitors, many whom have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\' markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft\' Windows operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms, including Windows. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenues, than many competitors. The Company\' ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technology the marketplace. result, the Company incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell Windows-based personal computers. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\' Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\' brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percent revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. During , the Company introduced new client operating system, Mac , and delivered its first major upgrade, Mac version . During , the Company delivered another major upgrade, Mac Jaguar. Inability the Company improve the performance and functionality Mac , advance customer acceptance the new operating system and its upgrades, obtain the continued commitment software developers transition existing applications run Mac create new applications run Mac , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such formal and informal purchase commitments typically cover the Company\' forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\' ability obtain sufficient supply components, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, TFT-LCD flat-panel displays, and optical and magnetic disk drives), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry including certain microprocessors and ASICs. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using the Windows operating systems. Further, despite its efforts educate the marketplace the contrary, the Company believes that many its current and potential customers believe that the relatively slower MHz rating clock speed the microprocessors utilizes its Macintosh systems compares unfavorably those utilized Windows-based systems and translates slower overall system performance. There have been instances recent years where the inability the Company\' suppliers provide advanced and microprocessors with higher clock speeds sufficient quantity has had significant adverse effects the Company\' results operations. The inability the future the Company obtain microprocessors sufficient quantities with competitive price performance features could have adverse impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the United States. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, and Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fullerton, California, Taiwan, Korea, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacture many the components used the Company\' products and final assembly all the Company\' portable products including PowerBooks, iBooks, and the iPod performed third-party vendors Taiwan. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted regional economic, business, environmental, political, military conditions events, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\' products could experience quality problems that result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that may contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications such the Company sells often contains "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties that may beyond its control. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. Failure could result lost revenues, loss reputation, and significant expense remedy. The Company\' retail initiative requires substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Since May , the Company has opened retail stores the United States and anticipates opening more stores calendar . The Company\' retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating leases commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years. The Company would incur substantial costs should choose terminate this initiative close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\' costs are fixed because depreciation store constructions costs and lease expense. result, should the Retail segment experience decline sales for any reason, significant losses would result. Certain the Company\' stores have been intentionally designed and built serve high profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\' typical retail stores. The Company has opened two such stores and has several others under development. Because their location and size, these high profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total commitments per location over the lease terms ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high profile stores could have particularly significant negative impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\' control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\' future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\' consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; lack consumer acceptance the Company\' retail approach; failure attract new users the Macintosh platform; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain quality retail locations reasonable cost. Unit sales the Company\' professionally oriented desktop systems have declined sharply over past two three years negatively impacting net sales and gross margin. Unit sales Power Macintosh systems fell % during compared and fell % from . Power Macintosh unit sales have fallen percentage total Macintosh unit sales from % % . The Company believes that weak economic conditions over the past several years are having pronounced negative impact its professional and creative customers who are the primary users such systems. The Company also believes that many these customers continue delay upgrades their Power Macintosh systems due the Company\' ongoing transition Mac and anticipation certain software vendors transitioning their professionally oriented Macintosh software applications run natively Mac . addition the negative impact net sales, declining sales Power Macintosh systems also have negative effect the Company\' overall gross margin because Power Macintosh systems are generally higher priced and have higher individual gross margins than the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company\' other Macintosh systems. Continued deterioration Power Macintosh unit sales will adversely affect the Company\' future net sales and gross margin. future unit sales Power Macintosh systems fail partially fully recover, will difficult for the Company improve its overall profitability. The Company faces increasing competition the . education market. Sales the United States both elementary and secondary schools, well for college and university customers, remains core market for Apple. Net sales these markets fell % the Company\' total net sales from % . This drop reflects declines both net sales and Macintosh unit sales these markets % and %, respectively, fiscal compared . These developments are consistent with industry data showing the Company losing market share the . education market each the last two fiscal years. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers. Although the Company has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase its share the education market maintain its existing share that market. Failure increase maintain market share the education market may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company\' future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\' products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world. The Company also sells its own products and certain third-party products through its retail stores the United States. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively affected current economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company\' business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. Historically, the Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can increase the cost the Company product components, negatively affecting the Company\' results operations. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. The Company\' future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac , the Company\' new operating system, timely basis all. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, for period five years through August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft was required make versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has released Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer for Mac , Microsoft not obligated produce future versions its products subsequent August . While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Company does compete directly with Microsoft number key areas. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. Discontinuance Microsoft Office and other Microsoft products for the Macintosh platform would have adverse effect the Company\' net sales and results operations. The Company\' business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\' future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely effected. Information regarding claims and potential litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would have material adverse effect its results operations, financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company expects its quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\' profit margins vary among its products, its geographic markets, and its distribution channels. result, the overall profitability the Company any given period will depend, part, the product, geographic, and channel mix reflected that period\' net sales. The typical concentration net sales the third month the Company\' fiscal quarters can adversely affect the Company\' business and operating results. The Company generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics components suppliers, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. The Company\' success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\' employees are located. There can assurance that the Company will able successfully attract and retain the key personnel needs. Additionally, volatility lack positive performance the Company\' stock price may adversely affect its ability retain key employees. September , , substantial majority the Company\' outstanding employee stock options were out- -the-money. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and cost insurance. The Company has observed rapidly changing conditions the insurance markets relating nearly all areas traditional corporate insurance. Such conditions have resulted higher premium costs, higher policy deductibles, and lower coverage limits. For some risks, because cost and availability, the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company does not have insurance coverage. For these reasons, the Company retaining greater portion its insurable risks than has the past relatively greater cost. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivables. This risk heightened economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\' outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables, there can assurance that such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy and regional economies fail improve continue deteriorate, becomes more likely that the Company will incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. The market value the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments subject significant volatility. The Company holds minority investments several public companies with combined fair market value approximately $ million September , . These investments are publicly traded companies whose share prices are subject significant volatility. The Company has categorized its investments these companies available-for-sale requiring the investments carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company recognizes impairment charge earnings when judged investment has experienced decline value that other-than-temporary. The Company has recognized material impairment charges related its non-current debt and equity investments twice the last two fiscal years. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company. The parliament the European Union working finalizing the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (the Directive). The Directive makes producers electrical goods, including personal computers, financially responsible for the collection, recycling, and safe disposal past and future products. The Directive must now approved and implemented individual European Union governments June , while the producers\' financial obligations are scheduled start June . The Company\' potential liability resulting from the Directive related past sales its products and expenses associated with future sales its product may substantial. However, because likely that specific laws, regulations, and enforcement policies will vary significantly between individual European member states, not currently possible estimate the Company\' existing liability future expenses resulting from the Directive. the European Union and its individual member states clarify specific requirements and policies with respect the Directive, the Company will continue assess its potential financial impact. Similar legislation may enacted other geographies, including federal and state legislation the United States, the cumulative impact which could significant. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Business interruptions could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results. The Company\' major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major components suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural manmade disaster. Unanticipated changes the Company\' tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\' future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected unanticipated changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. The Company\' stock price may volatile. The Company\' stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, well general economic and political conditions and investors\' concerns regarding the credibility corporate financial reporting and integrity financial markets, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' common stock the future. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ', 'item 7a. ': 'Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the non-hedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap and option positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standard . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , October , . SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' fixed income investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. The Company benchmarks its performance utilizing external money managers manage small portion the aggregate investment portfolio. The external managers adhere the Company\' investment policies and also provide occasional research and market information that supplements internal research used make credit decisions the investment process. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investment portfolio and long-term debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , $ billion the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments was invested . Agency and corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from years. September , , $ million the Company\' investment portfolio classified short-term investments was . agency securities with underlying maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities between and months. Due liquidity needs, anticipation credit deterioration, for the purpose duration management the Company\' ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' investment portfolio, the Company may sell investments prior their stated maturities. result such activity, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . order provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\' investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact that change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. Except instances noted above, the Company\' policy hold investments maturity. The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. During the last two years, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps, which qualified accounting hedges, generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and convert portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. Due prevailing market interest rates, during the Company entered into and then subsequently closed out debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. During the Company closed out all its then existing debt swap positions realizing gain $ million. Both the gains and were deferred, recognized long-term debt and are being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. certain times the past, the Company has also entered into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. The Company\' asset swaps did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and were recorded fair value the balance sheet with associated gains and losses recorded interest and other income. Interest rate asset swaps outstanding September , , had weighted-average receive rate % and weighted-average pay rate %. The unrealized loss these assets swaps September , , $ million was deferred and then recognized income part the SFAS . transition adjustment effective October , . The Company closed out all its existing interest rate asset swaps during realizing gain $ million. Foreign Currency Risk Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing within the time frame our hedged positions due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies its foreign subsidiaries. order provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\' foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (VAR) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate random market price paths. The value- -risk the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\' foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual gains and losses the future associated with the Company\' investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\' actual exposures and positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DM2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data User-specified TAGGED TABLE Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Report Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DQ2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net Non-current debt and equity investments Acquired intangible assets Other assets Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ $ Accrued expenses Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt Deferred tax liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Acquisition-related deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) Total shareholders\' equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DS2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development Selling, general, and administrative , , , Special charges: Restructuring costs \x97 -process research and development \x97 Executive bonus ( ) \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income (loss) ( ) Other income and expense: Gains (losses) non-current investments, net ( ) Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 ( ) \x97 Interest and other income, net Total other income and expense Income (loss) before provision for income taxes ( ) , Provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( ) Income (loss) before accounting change ( ) Cumulative effect accounting change, net income taxes $ \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share before accounting change: Basic $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DU2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Preferred Stock Common Stock Acquisition- Related Deferred Stock Compensation Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Shareholders\' Equity Shares Amount Shares Amount Balances September , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income Foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 Conversion Series preferred stock ( ) ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock repurchased \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Issuance common stock and assumption stock options connection with acquisition \x97 \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 Amortization acquisition-related deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 Conversion Series preferred stock ( ) ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income (loss): Net income (loss) Foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income (loss) Amortization acquisition-related deferred stock compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , \x97 $ \x97 , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DW2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating: Net income (loss) ( ) Cumulative effect accounting change, net taxes \x97 ( ) \x97 Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization Provision for deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment (Gains) losses investments, net ( ) ( ) Unrealized loss convertible securities \x97 \x97 Purchased -process research and development \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( ) ( ) Other assets ( ) Accounts payable ( ) Other current liabilities ( ) Cash generated operating activities Investing: Purchase short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales short-term investments , Purchases long-term investments \x97 ( ) ( ) Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sales equity investments Cash used for business acquisitions ( ) \x97 \x97 Other ( ) ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) investing activities ( ) ( ) Financing: Proceeds from issuance common stock Cash used for repurchase common stock \x97 \x97 ( ) Cash generated (used for) financing activities ( ) Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) , ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes, net $ $ $ Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for conversion Series preferred stock $ \x97 $ $ Issuance common stock connection with acquisition $ \x97 $ $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]DY2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related personal computing and communicating solutions for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Typically, the Company\' fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. Consequently, additional week was added the first quarter fiscal . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. Financial Instruments Investments The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers. All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments October , , the Company adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires that all derivatives recognized either assets liabilities fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million. Net the related income tax effect approximately $ million, adoption SFAS . resulted favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income approximately $ million, all which was reclassified earnings during . Management does not believe that ongoing application SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are attributable particular risk and that are designated cash flow hedges, the net gain loss the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' derivative instrument reported component other comprehensive income stockholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective achieving offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability identified portion thereof that are attributable particular risk and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. For derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments, changes fair value are recognized earnings the current period. For foreign currency forward contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts designated cash flow hedges, hedge effectiveness measured based changes total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected cash flows the hedged transactions determined the sum the probability-weighted outcomes with respect the option strike rates with the total change fair value the option hedge. For interest rate swap agreements qualifying fair value hedges, the Company assumes ineffectiveness because these swaps meet the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . . Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms estimated useful lives for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Prior the fourth quarter , the Company had classified capitalized costs related internal-use software the balance sheet other assets. Effective September , , and for all other periods presented, the Company has reclassified internal-use software property, plant, and equipment and reclassified related cash flows for the purchase development internal-use software from cash flow from operations cash flow from investing activities. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments Investments categorized non-current debt and equity investments the consolidated balance sheet are equity and debt instruments public companies. They are not categorized current assets either because, given their nature, they are not readily convertible into cash because they represent potentially longer-term investments the Company. Further, the fair value these investments has been subject high degree volatility. The Company\' non-current debt and equity investments have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. However, the Company recognizes impairment charge earnings the event decline fair value below the cost basis one these investments determined other-than-temporary. The Company includes recognized gains and losses resulting from the sale from other-than-temporary declines fair value associated with these investments other income and expense. Occasionally, the Company uses short-term equity derivatives manage potential dispositions non-current debt and equity investments. Any gains losses associated with such derivatives are recognized currently other income and expense. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made material adjustments its long-lived assets except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . The Company adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , the first quarter fiscal . SFAS . requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. Prior fiscal , goodwill was amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. The Company completed its transitional and annual goodwill impairment tests October , , and August , , respectively, and found impairment. The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenues and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency, remeasure monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' rates, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the Company\' results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale products (hardware, software, and peripherals), consulting and implementation services, and extended warranty and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including Statement Position (SOP) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended. Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the United States, and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until product received the customer because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. For other product sales, these criteria are met the Company the time product shipped. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end user rebates and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. Revenue for consulting and implementation services recognized upon performance and acceptance the customer. Revenue from extended warranty and support contracts recognized ratably over the contract period. Amounts billed customers excess revenue recognized extended warranty and support contracts are recognized deferred revenue until revenue recognition criteria are met. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based vendor specific objective evidence the fair value each element. Allocated revenue for each element recognized when revenue recognition criteria have been met for each element. Vendor specific objective evidence fair value generally determined based the price charged when each element sold separately. Shipping Costs The Company\' shipping and handling costs are included cost sales for all periods presented. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been expensed. During the third and fourth quarter , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development Mac version (code-named "Jaguar") subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta May and prior release the final version the product the fourth quarter. such, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs associated with development ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Jaguar. Amortization this asset began the fourth quarter when Jaguar was shipped and being recognized straight-line basis over years. addition, during , the Company also began capitalizing certain costs related development its new PowerSchool enterprise student information system. Capitalization, which began upon achievement technological feasibility the first quarter, amounted approximately $ million during the first nine months fiscal . The final version the enterprise student information system was released July. During the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with the development the original version Mac , subsequent release public beta version the product and prior release the final product version. result, the Company capitalized approximately $ million development costs during associated with development Mac . Related amortization computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the asset years. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million and $ , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees and has provided pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. The Company has elected follow APB . because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected life options and the Company\' expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not provide reliable measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' For purposes the pro forma disclosures pursuant SFAS . provided the Company\' annual reports through , the expected volatility assumptions used the Company have been based solely historical volatility rates the Company\' common stock. The Company has made adjustments its expected volatility assumptions based current market conditions, current market trends, expected volatility implicit market traded options the Company\' stock. The Company will continue monitor the propriety this approach developing its expected volatility assumption and could determine for future periods that adjustments historical volatility and use methodology that based the expected volatility implicit market traded options the Company\' common stock are more appropriate based the facts and circumstances existing future periods. Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect convertible securities reflected using the -converted method. Dilutive potential shares common stock related stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted loss per common share for fiscal because their effect would have been antidilutive. Stock Split June , , the Company affected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, from unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and from net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\' cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities \x97 . corporate securities , , Foreign securities Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities , . corporate securities Foreign securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper, loan participations, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. Net unrealized gains the Company\' investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities greater than year, were $ million September , and $ million September , . The Company occasionally sells short-term investments prior their stated maturities. result such sales, the Company recognized net gains $ million and $ million . These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\' short-term investments had underlying maturities between and years. The remaining short-term investments September , all had maturities between and months. September , , approximately $ million the Company\' short-term investments . agency securities had underlying maturities between and years. The remaining short-term investments September , , all had maturities between and months. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and directly certain education and consumer customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Latin America and Asia. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. Trade receivables from single customer, Ingram Micro, Inc., accounted for approximately % and % net accounts receivable September , , and September , , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions). User-specified TAGGED TABLE Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represent amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balances sheets other current assets, totaled $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company does not recognize any profits these sales reflect the sale these components its net sales. Inventory Prepayment April , the Company made $ million prepayment Asian supplier for the purchase components over the following nine months. return for this deposit, the supplier agreed supply the Company with specified level components the three consecutive fiscal quarters ending December , . the supplier fails supply the agreed upon level components any those three fiscal quarters, the Company may cancel the arrangement and receive the amount the prepayment not utilized plus penalty. Approximately $ million this deposit remained unused September , , and reflected the condensed consolidated balance sheets other current assets. The amount the prepayment not utilized the Company before December , , refundable the Company January , . Although the supplier\' existing debt unrated, its public debt pricing consistent with other BBB rated companies. The deposit unsecured and has stated interest component. The Company imputing amount cost sales and interest income during each period the deposit outstanding appropriate market interest rate reflect the economics this transaction. light the supplier\' implied debt rating and because the Company\' prepayment unsecured, non-performance and economic deterioration the supplier could place all some the Company\' deposit risk. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenues and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\' accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EA2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions). User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Transactions qualifying accounting hedges: Interest rate instruments: Swaps $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net $ $ $ $ $ $ Purchased options, net $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ $ Sold options, net $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Transactions other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 Purchased options, net $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ $ Sold options, net $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions and certain probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, availability appropriate hedging instruments. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' accordance with SFAS . , hedges related probable but not firmly committed transactions anticipatory nature are designated and documented hedge inception cash flow hedges and evaluated for hedge effectiveness quarterly. For currency forward contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the contract attributable changes the forward exchange rate. Changes the expected future cash flows the forecasted hedged transaction and changes the fair value the forward hedge are both measured from the contract rate the forward exchange rate associated with the forward contract\' maturity date. For currency option contracts, hedge effectiveness measured based changes the total fair value the option contract. Hedge effectiveness assessed comparing the present value the cumulative change expected future cash flows the hedged transaction determined the sum the probability-weighted outcomes with respect the option strike rates with the total change fair value the option hedge. The net gains losses derivative instruments qualifying cash flow hedges are reported components other comprehensive income stockholders\' equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any residual changes fair value these instruments are recognized current earnings other income and expense. protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenues, and the Company\' non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\' functional currency. Other comprehensive income associated with hedges foreign currency revenues recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenues and inventory purchases over time horizon months. The Company also enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts offset the translation and economic exposure net investment position foreign subsidiary. Hedge effectiveness forwards designated net investment hedges measured based changes the fair value the contract attributable changes the spot exchange rate. The effective portion the net gain loss derivative instrument designated hedge the net investment position foreign subsidiary reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. Any residual changes fair value the forward contract, including changes fair value based the differential between the spot and forward exchange rates are recognized current earnings other income and expense. discussed above, the Company enters into foreign currency option contracts items that provide offset the -measurement certain recorded assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. All changes the fair value these derivative contracts based changes option time value are recorded current earnings other income and expense. Due market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. During , the Company recorded net gains $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. During , the Company recorded net gain $ million other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\' forecast future net sales and cost sales. Interest Rate Risk Management The Company sometimes enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. September , , the Company had entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The interest rate swaps generally required the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt and converted portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps. During fiscal , the Company closed out all its existing debt interest rate swap positions due prevailing market interest rates realizing gain $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. The unrealized loss the assets swaps September , , $ million was deferred and then recognized income part the SFAS . transition adjustment effective October , . The Company closed out all its existing interest rate asset swaps during realizing gain $ million. September , , the Company had interest rate derivatives outstanding. Due perceived market risk, the Company entered into interest rate swaps early . These interest rate swaps were entered into with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. The interest rate swaps required the Company pay floating interest rate based six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively converted the Company\' fixed-rate -year debt floating-rate debt. The Company assumed ineffectiveness with regard the debt interest swaps each debt interest rate swap met the criteria for accounting under the short-cut method defined SFAS . for fair ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' value hedges debt instruments. Accordingly, net gains losses were recorded income relative the Company\' underlying debt interest rate swaps during fiscal until the Company closed out the positions late due prevailing market interest rates. Closing the debt interest rate swaps resulted realized gain $ million. This gain was deferred, recognized long-term debt and being amortized other income and expense over the remaining life the debt. Long-Term Debt During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . September , and September , , the carrying amount these notes, including unamortized deferred gains associated with closed debt interest rate swaps, was $ million and $ million, respectively, while the fair value was $ million and $ million, respectively. The fair value the notes based their listed market values September , and September , . Non-Current Debt and Equity Investments and Related Gains and Losses The Company has held significant investments EarthLink Network, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), ARM Holdings plc (ARM), and Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung). These investments have been reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments, and their combined fair value was $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. EarthLink January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the United States. Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Mac customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP the Company\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the United States. During the second quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary requiring that its cost basis written down fair value new cost basis and the amount the write-down included earnings. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. During the fourth quarter , the Company sold total approximately , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ , . September , , the Company held million shares EarthLink stock with fair value approximately $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares EarthLink stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales EarthLink were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the then current decline the fair value its investment EarthLink was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' EarthLink $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company holds million shares EarthLink stock valued $ million. Akamai June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. The fair value the Company\' investment Akamai was approximately $ million September , . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares Akamai stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. September , , the Company held million shares Akamai stock valued $ million. During the first quarter , the Company sold , shares Akamai stock for net proceeds $ million and gain before taxes $ , . sales Akamai were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . However, during the fourth quarter , the Company determined that the decline the fair value its investment Akamai was other-than-temporary. result, the Company recognized $ million charge earnings write-down the basis its investment Akamai $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company holds million shares Akamai stock valued $ million. ARM Holdings ARM publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. During the first quarter , the Company sold million shares ARM stock for both net proceeds and gain before taxes $ million. sales ARM were made any the subsequent quarters fiscal . September , , the Company holds , shares ARM stock valued $ , . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. September , , the Company held million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million and recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million. Samsung During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment was the form three year unsecured bonds, which were convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning July . The bonds carried annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung was approximately $ million September , . Prior its sale, the Company had categorized its investment Samsung available-for-sale requiring that carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung was approximately $ million September , . With the adoption SFAS . October , , the Company was required account for the conversion option embedded the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Samsung bonds separately from the related debt. The conversion feature was carried fair value with any changes fair value recognized earnings the period which they occur. Included the $ million gross SFAS . transition adjustment recorded earnings during the first quarter fiscal was $ million favorable adjustment for the restatement fair value October , , the derivative component the Company\' investment Samsung. adjust the carrying value the derivative component its investment Samsung fair value December , , the Company recognized unrealized loss approximately $ million during the first quarter . During the second quarter , the Company sold this investment for book value, including accrued interest, and received net proceeds approximately $ million. Other Strategic Investments The Company has made additional minority debt and equity investments several privately held technology companies which were reflected the consolidated balance sheets other assets. These investments are inherently risky because the products and markets these companies are typically not fully developed. During the Company determined that the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings approximately $ million. This charge was included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. During , the Company determined that the decline fair value certain these investments was other-than-temporary and, accordingly, recognized charge earnings $ million. These charges were included gains (losses) non-current investments, net. September , , the Company has private debt equity investments reflected its consolidated balance sheet. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details Inventories ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Purchased parts $ $ Work process \x97 \x97 Finished goods Total inventories $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Property, Plant, and Equipment ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Land and buildings $ $ Machinery and equipment Office furniture and equipment Internal-use software Leasehold improvements , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Accrued Expenses ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Accrued compensation and employee benefits $ $ Accrued marketing and sales programs Deferred revenue Accrued warranty and related costs Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest and Other Income, Net ( millions) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss), net Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments ( ) ( ) Miscellaneous other income and expense Total interest and other income, net $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Acquisitions Goodwill and Other Acquisition-Related Intangibles The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill ( ) $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ Other acquired intangible assets ( ) \x97 ( ) Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Accumulated amortization related goodwill $ million arising prior the adoption SFAS . has been reflected the gross carrying amount goodwill September , and September , . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EC2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total expected annual amortization expense $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Other acquired intangible assets amortization Acquired technology amortization \x97 Total amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share adjusted exclude amortization goodwill fiscal periods prior follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss), reported $ $ ( ) $ Add: goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Net income (loss), adjusted $ $ ( ) $ Basic earnings (loss) per share, reported $ $ ( ) $ Add: goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Basic earnings (loss) per share, adjusted $ $ ( ) $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share, reported $ $ ( ) $ Add: goodwill amortization $ \x97 $ $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share, adjusted $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition Emagic During the fourth quarter , the Company acquired Emagic GmbH, provider professional software solutions for computer based music production, for approximately $ million cash; $ million which was paid immediately upon closing the deal and $ million which was held-back for future payment contingent continued employment certain employees that will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. The acquisition has been accounted for purchase. The portion the purchase price allocated purchased -process research and development (IPR& ) was expensed immediately, and the portion the purchase price allocated ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' acquired technology and tradename will amortized over their estimated useful lives years. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Acquired technology Tradename -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates primarily Emagic\' Logic series technology and extensions. the date the acquisition, the products under development were between %- % complete, and was expected that the remaining work would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ , . The remaining efforts include finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. Acquisition certain assets Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail During fiscal the Company acquired certain technology and patent rights Zayante, Inc., Prismo Graphics, and Silicon Grail Corporation for total $ million cash. These transactions have been accounted for asset acquisitions. The purchase price for these asset acquisitions, except for $ million identified contingent consideration which will allocated compensation expense over the next years, has been allocated acquired technology and will amortized straight-line basis over years, except for certain assets acquired from Zayante associated with patent royalty streams that will amortized over years. Acquisition Nothing Real, LLC During the second quarter , the Company acquired certain assets Nothing Real, LLC (Nothing Real), privately-held company that develops and markets high performance tools designed for the digital image creation market. the $ million purchase price, the Company has allocated $ million acquired technology, which will amortized over its estimated life years. The remaining $ million, which has been identified contingent consideration, rather than recorded additional component the cost the acquired assets, will allocated future compensation expense the appropriate periods over the next years. Acquisition Spruce Technologies, Inc. July , the Company acquired Spruce Technologies, Inc. (Spruce), privately-held company that develops and markets DVD authoring products, for $ million cash. Goodwill associated with the acquisition Spruce not subject amortization pursuant the transition provisions SFAS . . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' The consolidated financial statements include the operating results Spruce from the date acquisition. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible liabilities assumed $ ( ) Identifiable intangible assets Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. May , the Company acquired PowerSchool, Inc. (PowerSchool), provider web-based student information systems for - schools and districts that enables schools record, access, report, and manage their student data and performance real-time, and gives parents real-time web access track their children\' progress. The consolidated financial statements include the operating results PowerSchool from the date acquisition. The purchase price approximately $ million consisted the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock with fair value $ million, the issuance stock options with fair value $ million, and $ , direct transaction costs. The fair value the common stock options issued was determined using Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: volatility %, expected life years, dividend rate %, and risk-free rate %. Total consideration was allocated follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net tangible assets acquired $ Deferred stock compensation Identifiable intangible assets -process research and development Goodwill Total consideration $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The amount the purchase price allocated IPR& was expensed upon acquisition, because the technological feasibility products under development had not been established and alternative future uses existed. The IPR& relates technologies representing processes and expertise employed design, develop, and deploy functioning, scalable web-based student information system for use - schools. the date the acquisition, the product under development was approximately % complete, and was expected that the remaining % would completed during the Company\' fiscal cost approximately $ million. The remaining efforts, which were completed , included completion coding, finalizing user interface design and development, and testing. The fair value the IPR& was determined independent third-party valuation using the income approach, which reflects the projected free cash flows that will generated the IPR& projects and that are attributable the acquired technology, and discounting the projected net cash flows back their present value using discount rate %. The acquired intangibles are being amortized over their estimated useful lives three years, respectively. Deferred stock compensation associated with restricted stock and options being amortized over the required future vesting period three years. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' the fourth quarter , adjustment was made increase goodwill associated with the acquisition PowerSchool $ million due the identification previously unidentified loss contingencies that were existence prior consummation the acquisition. Acquisition-Related Deferred Stock Compensation The Company allocated $ million its purchase consideration for PowerSchool acquisition-related deferred stock compensation within shareholders\' equity. This amount represents the intrinsic value stock options assumed that vest future services are provided employees and related , common shares issued contingent continued employment certain PowerSchool employee stockholders. Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited pro forma financial information below presents the condensed consolidated financial results the Company assuming that PowerSchool and Spruce, acquired , had been acquired the beginning and includes the effect amortization goodwill and other acquired identifiable intangible assets from that date. The impact the charge for IPR& associated with the acquisition PowerSchool has been excluded. This pro forma financial information presented for informational purposes only and not necessarily indicative the results future operations that would have been achieved had the acquisitions taken place the beginning . Pro forma information follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net sales $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ Basic earnings (loss) per common share $ ( ) $ Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Special Charges Restructuring Actions Restructuring Actions During fiscal , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million related actions intended eliminate certain activities and better align the Company\' operating expenses with existing general economic conditions and partially offset the cost continuing investments new product development and investments the Company\' Retail operating segment. During the fourth quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million designed reduce headcount costs Corporate operations and sales and adjust its PowerSchool product strategy. These restructuring actions resulted the elimination approximately positions worldwide cost $ million, which were eliminated September , . Eliminated positions were primarily Corporate operations, sales, and PowerSchool related research and development. The shift product strategy PowerSchool included discontinuing development and marketing PowerSchool\' PSE product. This shift resulted the impairment previously capitalized development costs associated with the PSE product the amount $ million. September , , substantially all the $ million accrual had been utilized, except for insignificant severance and related costs associated with the remaining positions. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EE2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT During the first quarter , the Company\' management approved and initiated restructuring actions with total cost approximately $ million. These restructuring actions will result the elimination approximately positions worldwide, which were eliminated September , , cost $ million. Positions were eliminated primarily the Company\' operations, information systems, and administrative functions. addition, these restructuring actions also included significant changes the Company\' information systems strategy resulting termination equipment leases and cancellation existing projects and activities. Related lease and contract cancellation charges totaled $ million, and charges for asset impairments totaled $ million. the original $ million restructuring charge made during the first quarter , approximately $ million had been spent September , and approximately $ , was reversed during the second quarter due lower actual costs than originally estimated for certain lease commitments and severance benefits. The remaining $ million accrual relates primarily future payments abandoned operating leases. Restructuring Actions During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. the $ million accrued for severance, $ million had been spent before the end , and the remainder was spent . the $ million accrued for the write-off various assets, substantially all was utilized before the end . Executive Bonus During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which was not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge for the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. the fourth quarter , all significant work and payments associated with the aircraft were complete. the original $ million accrual, $ million remained unspent the end fiscal and was reversed. Technology Acquisition discussed Note , during both and its acquisition Emagic and PowerSchool, respectively, the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. This resulted the recognition purchased -process research and development the amount $ , for Emagic and $ million for PowerSchool, which was charged operations upon acquisition. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Federal: Current $ $ ( ) $ Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) State: Current \x97 \x97 Deferred ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million and $ billion , , and , respectively. September , , approximately half the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves Basis capital assets and investments Tax losses and credits Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Available-for-sale securities Other Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset (liability) $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire from through . These carryforwards are comprised remaining operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT and other acquisitions. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income (loss) before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Computed expected tax (benefit) $ $ ( ) $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries \x97 \x97 ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation ( ) \x97 Purchase accounting and asset acquisitions \x97 Change valuation allowance ( ) \x97 ( ) Research & development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible expenses \x97 Other items ( ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ $ ( ) $ Effective tax rate % % % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed audits the Company\' federal income tax returns through . Substantially all IRS audit issues for years through have been resolved. The IRS currently auditing the Company\' federal income tax returns for fiscal years through . Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. Note \x97Shareholders\' Equity Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During , the Company repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. During the fourth quarter , the Company entered into forward purchase agreement acquire million shares its common stock September average price $ per share for total cost $ million. The Company engaged transactions relating the stock repurchase plan fiscal . Since inception the repurchase plan, the Company has repurchased committed repurchase total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Preferred Stock August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross license and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. These shares were convertible Microsoft after August , , into shares the Company\' common stock conversion price $ per share. During , , shares preferred stock were converted million shares the Company\' common stock. During , the remaining , preferred shares were converted into million shares the Company\' common stock. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Comprehensive Income The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income, net taxes, ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Unrealized gains available-for-sale securities $ $ $ Unrealized gains (losses) derivative investments ( ) \x97 Cumulative translation adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Less: adjustment for net (gains) losses realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities was $ million, $ million, $( ) million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains included net income was $ million, $ million and $ million for fiscal , , and , respectively. The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Cumulative effect adopting SFAS . $ \x97 $ Changes fair value derivatives Less: adjustment for net gains realized and included net income ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gain derivatives $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The tax effect related the cumulative effect adopting SFAS . was $( ) September , . The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $( ) million and $( ) million for fiscal and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains reclassified from OCI was $ million and $ million for fiscal and , respectively. Note \x97Employee Benefit Plans Executive Officer Stock Plan The Executive Officer Stock Plan (the Plan) shareholder approved plan which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated April , the Stock Option Plan terminated October , and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan the Chairman the Board Directors, executive officers the Company the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors adopted shareholder approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP) for non-employee directors the Company. Initial grants , options under the DSOP vest three equal installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant, and subsequent annual grants , options are fully vested grant. Prior adoption the DSOP, , options were granted total two then-current members the Company\' Board Directors. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six-month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. During , , and , million, million and , shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Stock Option Activity summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , , September , and September , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Outstanding Options Shares Available for Grant Number Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EG2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT The options outstanding September , , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Options Outstanding September , Weighted-Average Remaining Contractual Life Years Weighted Average Exercise Price Options Exercisable September , Weighted Average Exercise Price $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ $ -$ , $ , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE The Company had exercisable options purchase million shares outstanding September , with weighted average exercise price $ . September , , the Company had exercisable options outstanding purchase million shares with weighted average exercise price $ . Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Expected life stock options years years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options % % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases % % % Volatility\x97stock options % % % Volatility\x97stock purchases % % % Dividend yields Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ $ ( ) $ Net income (loss)\x97pro forma $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97 reported Basic $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ Net income (loss) per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ ( ) $ ( ) $ Diluted $ ( ) $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years and often contain multi-year renewal options. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fiscal Years $ Later years Total minimum lease payments $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, the majority which occurs various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Contingencies Beginning September , , three shareholder class action lawsuits were filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and its Chief Executive Officer. These lawsuits are substantially identical, and purport bring suit behalf persons who purchased the Company\' publicly traded common stock between July , , and September , . The complaints allege violations the Securities Exchange Act and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The Company believes these claims are without merit and intends defend them vigorously. The Company filed motion dismiss June , , which was heard the Court September , . December , , the Court granted the Company\' motion dismiss for failure state cause action, with leave plaintiffs amend their complaint within thirty days. The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The parliament the European Union working finalizing the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (the Directive). The Directive makes producers electrical goods, including personal computers, financially responsible for the collection, recycling, and safe disposal past and future products. The Directive must now approved and implemented individual European Union governments June , while the producers\' financial obligations are scheduled start June . The Company\' potential liability resulting from the Directive related past sales its products and expenses associated with future sales its product may substantial. However, because likely that specific laws, regulations, and enforcement policies will vary significantly between individual European member states, not currently possible estimate the Company\' existing liability future expenses resulting from the Directive. the European Union and its individual member states clarify specific requirements and policies with respect the Directive, the Company will continue assess its potential financial impact. Similar legislation may enacted other geographies, including federal and state legislation the United States, the cumulative impact which could significant. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas segment includes both North and South America, except for the activities the Company\' Retail segment. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the United States. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar products and services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note , except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes revenue from third-parties, cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, manufacturing costs not included standard costs, income taxes, and various nonrecurring charges. Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress which not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million and $ million . Operating income for all segments except Retail includes cost sales standard cost. Certain manufacturing expenses and related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. assess the operating performance the Retail segment several significant items are included its results for internal management reporting that are not included results the Company\' other segments. First, cost sales for the Retail segment includes mark- above the Company\' standard cost approximate the price normally charged the Company\' major channel partners the United States. For the twelve-month period ended September , and September , , this resulted the recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million and $ million, respectively. Second, the Retail segment includes its net sales proceeds from sales the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts. This treatment consistent with how the Company\' major channel partners account for the sale the Company\' extended warranty and support contracts. Because the revenue from these contracts has yet earned the Company, offset this amount reflected decrease other segments\' net sales. For the twelve-month period ended September , , this resulted the recognition additional net sales the Retail segment, and offsetting reduction other segments\' net sales $ million. This amount was insignificant . Third, portion the operating expenses associated with certain high profile retail stores are allocated from the Retail segment corporate marketing expense. Allocation these expenses reflects the unique nature these stores which, given their larger size and extraordinary design elements, function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' awareness. Allocated operating costs are those excess operating costs incurred one the Company\' more typical retail locations. Stores were open two such high profile locations New York and Los Angeles September , , both which were opened fiscal . Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting from the operations these two stores was $ million . Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ $ $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ $ \x97 Operating income $ ( ) $ ( ) \x97 Depreciation and amortization( ) $ $ \x97 Segment assets( ) $ $ \x97 Other Segment: Net sales $ $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EI2481A.; \',USER=\'DROCCON\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income, and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Segment operating income $ $ $ , Corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Purchased -process research and development ( ) ( ) \x97 Restructuring costs ( ) \x97 ( ) Executive bonus \x97 ( ) Consolidated operating income $ $ ( ) $ Segment assets $ $ $ , Corporate assets $ , $ , $ , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation and amortization $ $ $ Corporate depreciation and amortization Consolidated depreciation and amortization $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore third-party vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. During , single distributor, Ingram Micro Inc. accounted for approximately % the Company\' net sales. Net sales during Ingram Micro Inc. the Americas and Europe segments were $ million and $ million, respectively. Net sales Ingram Micro Inc. all other segments were $ million. other single customer accounted for more than % net sales . single customer accounted for more than % net sales . ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: United States $ , $ , $ , Japan , Other Foreign Countries , , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , Long-Lived Assets: United States $ $ $ Japan Other Foreign Countries Total Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): User-specified TAGGED TABLE Net Sales: Power Macintosh( ) $ , $ , $ , PowerBook iMac , , , iBook Software, Service, and Other Net Sales , , Total Net Sales $ , $ , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Includes server sales and amounts previously reported Cube. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Note \x97Earnings Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share ( thousands, except net income (loss) and per share amounts): User-specified TAGGED TABLE For the Years Ended September , September , September , Numerator ( millions): Income (loss) before accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , Effect dilutive securities: Convertible preferred stock \x97 \x97 , Dilutive options , \x97 , Dilutive potential common shares , \x97 , Denominator for diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , Basic earnings (loss) per share before accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x97 $ \x97 Basic earnings (loss) per share after accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Diluted earnings (loss) per share before accounting change $ $ ( ) $ Cumulative effect accounting change, net tax \x97 $ \x97 Diluted earnings (loss) per share after accounting change $ $ ( ) $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Options purchase million shares common stock were outstanding the end that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share for that year because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for that year and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. September , , the Company had options purchase million shares its common stock outstanding, all which were excluded from the computation diluted loss per share for because the effect would have been antidilutive. Options purchase million shares common stock were outstanding the end that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share for that year because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for that year and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. Note \x97Related Party Transactions . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (" MicroWarehouse ") January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Company, through its MacWarehouse catalog. MicroWarehouse accounted for % and % the Company\' net sales and , respectively. Trade receivables from MicroWarehouse were $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. These receivables are subject the same credit risk the Company\' other trade receivables. addition, the Company purchases miscellaneous equipment and supplies from MicroWarehouse. Total purchases amounted approximately $ million and $ million . March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during and . connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail, $ million for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) User-specified TAGGED TABLE Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter (Tabular amounts millions, except per share amounts) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ $ Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ ( ) $ $ $ Diluted $ ( ) $ $ $ Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ $ $ $ ( ) Net income (loss) $ $ $ $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ ( ) Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income for the fourth quarter included several non-recurring items, net tax: the write-down certain equity investments totaling $ million; restructuring charge $ million; -process research and development charge approximately $ million; and the reversal portion previous ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' executive compensation expense resulting favorable impact $ million. Net income for the first quarter included restructuring charge, net tax, $ million. Net income during the first quarter also included gains, net tax, $ million related non-current investments. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after-tax net gains related non-current investments $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Net income for the third quarter included after-tax charge for purchased IPR& $ million associated with the Company\' acquisition PowerSchool. Net income for the first quarter includes after-tax favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment for the adoption SFAS . $ million. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EK2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method accounting for goodwill and changed its method accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . User-specified TAGGED TABLE KPMG LLP end user-specified TAGGED TABLE Mountain View, California October , ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EM2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' five directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. (Intuit) since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation and Loudcloud, Inc. Millard . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . also served the President the Gap Division from . Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ( NeXT ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. ( Genentech ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . Jerome . York Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micro Warehouse, Inc. Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer, Inc. September , Lawrence . Ellison resigned director. . Ellison had served director since . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors. " ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Fred . Anderson , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc., position held from August March . . Anderson also serves director 3Com Corporation. Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ( Compaq ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing ( ADP ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the " SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. Item . Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the Named Executive Officers ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer , , , , ( ) ( ) , , \x97 , , , , , , \x97 ( ) ( ) Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Software Engineering , , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for serving the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer for past services, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . This amount was previously reported bonus for fiscal year the Company\' Form - and Proxy Statement. Because the aircraft was transferred . Jobs , the amount approximately $ million paid the Company during fiscal year towards the purchase the plane and the related tax assistance approximately $ million was reported income . Jobs. fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. Accordingly, the $ million previously reported bonus has been removed from the table above, and the amounts reported taxable income . Jobs related the aircraft during each fiscal and reported compensation. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) special executive bonus was given . Cook for accepting the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Service & Support addition holding the position Senior Vice President Operations. January , . Cook was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations. ( ) Patent award. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Option Grants Last Fiscal Year The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR User-specified TAGGED TABLE Individual Grants Number Securities Underlying Options Granted (#) Percent Total Options Granted Employees Fiscal Year( ) Potential Realizable Value Assumed Annual Rates Stock Price Appreciation for Option Term( ) Name Exercise Base Price ($/ )( ) Expiration Date % ($) % ($) Steven . Jobs , , % $ $ , , $ , , Fred . Anderson \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Avadis Tevanian, . \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options granted fiscal year typically vest over four years sixteen equal quarterly increments. Options granted executive officers including those granted the Named Executive Officers typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. the options granted . Jobs, % were vested the date grant and the remainder vest three equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($)( ) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , , ( ) , , $ , $ Fred . Anderson , $ , , , , , $ $ Timothy . Cook , $ , , , , , $ $ Jonathan Rubinstein \x97 \x97 , , , , $ , , $ Avadis Tevanian, . , $ , , , , , , $ , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. Director Compensation , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the Director Plan ). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ( Initial Options ). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ( Annual Options ). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler and Arthur . Levinson, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. During fiscal , William . Campbell, Arthur . Levinson and Jerome . York served members the Compensation Committee, none whom were employees the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. During fiscal year , . Jobs served director Gap Inc. ("Gap") (though not the compensation committee that board directors) and . Drexler served director the Company. . Jobs resigned director Gap September . . Drexler resigned president and CEO Gap September and resigned ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' director Gap October . Subsequently, November , . York resigned from the committee, and . Drexler was appointed member the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. Security Ownership Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Lord, Abbett & , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , ( ) * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Jonathan Rubinstein , , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F- filed October , Lord, Abbett & ., Fith Avenue, New York, . ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Cook has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock which . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans (shares thousands). User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , $ , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , $ , ( ) Total equity compensation plans , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Executive Officer Stock Plan. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) Reflects shares authorized for future issuance under the Employee Stock Option Plan. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. ( MicroWarehouse ) January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. The Company also purchases products from MicroWarehouse for its own internal use. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during and . Item . Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management date within days the filing date this Annual Report Form - , the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ( Exchange Act ) are effective ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' There were significant changes the Company\' internal controls other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent the date their evaluation. There were significant deficiencies material weaknesses, and therefore there were corrective actions taken. However, the design any system controls based part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood future events and there certainty that any design will succeed achieving its stated goal under all potential future considerations, regardless how remote. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART Item . Exhibits ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company filed part this report Form - are set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - . . Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto under Part , Item this Form - . . Exhibits The following exhibits are filed part this Form - . User-specified TAGGED TABLE Exhibit Number Description ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent KPMG LLP Certificate Apple Computer, Inc. Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - August , , report that the Company had submitted the Securities and Exchange Commission the Statements under Oath Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer accordance with the SEC\' June , Order requiring the filing sworn statements pursuant Section ( )( ) the Securities and Exchange Act . The Company filed current report Form - August , , report the filing SEC Form Statement Changes Beneficial Ownership filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . Arthur Levinson August , . ( ) Exhibits Incorporated Reference User-specified TAGGED TABLE Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the Indenture"). insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 99K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through October , . 97K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Director Stock Option Plan. ** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through April , . ** Reimbursement Agreement. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 02K Power Attorney. end user-specified TAGGED TABLE * Notes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' User-specified TAGGED TABLE NOTES - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . - - , - - , - , - Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 99K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 02K Incorporated reference Page this Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 19th day December . User-specified TAGGED TABLE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Title Date / / STEVEN . JOBS STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) December , / / FRED . ANDERSON FRED . ANDERSON Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) December , / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL WILLIAM . CAMPBELL Director December , / / MILLARD . DREXLER MILLARD . DREXLER Director December , / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ARTHUR . LEVINSON Director December , / / JEROME . YORK JEROME . YORK Director December , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JC2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT , Steven . Jobs, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Apple Computer, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\' disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\' auditors and the audit committee registrant\' board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\' ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\' auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\' internal controls; and . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether not there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. December , User-specified TAGGED TABLE : / / STEVEN . JOBS Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JE2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' , Fred . Anderson, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Apple Computer, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\' disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\' auditors and the audit committee registrant\' board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\' ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\' auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\' internal controls; and . The registrant\' other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether not there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. December , User-specified TAGGED TABLE : / / FRED . ANDERSON Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JE2481A.; \',USER=\'MWORTHY\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN TOC_BEGIN SEQ=,FILE=\'QUICKLINK\',USER=MWORTHY,SEQ=,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" " TOCEXISTFLA', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\' five directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell Director Millard . Drexler Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson Director Jerome . York Director end user-specified TAGGED TABLE William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. (Intuit) since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation and Loudcloud, Inc. Millard . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . also served the President the Gap Division from . Steven . Jobs one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ( NeXT ) and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. ( Genentech ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . Jerome . York Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micro Warehouse, Inc. Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. and Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer, Inc. September , Lawrence . Ellison resigned director. . Ellison had served director since . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled " Directors. " ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Fred . Anderson , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc., position held from August March . . Anderson also serves director 3Com Corporation. Timothy . Cook , Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ( Compaq ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. Nancy . Heinen , Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . Ronald . Johnson , Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer , Senior Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing ( ADP ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Jonathan Rubinstein , Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. Philip . Schiller , Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Sina Tamaddon , Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Avadis Tevanian, ., . , Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the " SEC "). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the Named Executive Officers ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE User-specified TAGGED TABLE Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) Steven . Jobs Chief Executive Officer , , , , ( ) ( ) , , \x97 , , , , , , \x97 ( ) ( ) Fred . Anderson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Timothy . Cook Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations , , , \x97 , \x97 ( ) \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) Avadis Tevanian, . Senior Vice President, Software Engineering , , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 , , \x97 , , , ( ) ( ) ( ) end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for serving the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer for past services, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . This amount was previously reported bonus for fiscal year the Company\' Form - and Proxy Statement. Because the aircraft was transferred . Jobs , the amount approximately $ million paid the Company during fiscal year towards the purchase the plane and the related tax assistance approximately $ million was reported income . Jobs. fiscal , approximately $ million paid the Company towards the purchase the plane and approximately $ million related tax assistance was reported income . Jobs. Accordingly, the $ million previously reported bonus has been removed from the table above, and the amounts reported taxable income . Jobs related the aircraft during each fiscal and reported compensation. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) special executive bonus was given . Cook for accepting the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Service & Support addition holding the position Senior Vice President Operations. January , . Cook was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations. ( ) Patent award. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' Option Grants Last Fiscal Year The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR User-specified TAGGED TABLE Individual Grants Number Securities Underlying Options Granted (#) Percent Total Options Granted Employees Fiscal Year( ) Potential Realizable Value Assumed Annual Rates Stock Price Appreciation for Option Term( ) Name Exercise Base Price ($/ )( ) Expiration Date % ($) % ($) Steven . Jobs , , % $ $ , , $ , , Fred . Anderson \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Jonathan Rubinstein \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Avadis Tevanian, . \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options granted fiscal year typically vest over four years sixteen equal quarterly increments. Options granted executive officers including those granted the Named Executive Officers typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. the options granted . Jobs, % were vested the date grant and the remainder vest three equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EO2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES User-specified TAGGED TABLE Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name Shares Acquired Exercise (#) Value Realized ($)( ) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , , ( ) , , $ , $ Fred . Anderson , $ , , , , , $ $ Timothy . Cook , $ , , , , , $ $ Jonathan Rubinstein \x97 \x97 , , , , $ , , $ Avadis Tevanian, . , $ , , , , , , $ , , $ end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. Director Compensation , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the Director Plan ). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ( Initial Options ). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ( Annual Options ). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. William . Campbell, Millard . Drexler and Arthur . Levinson, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered "independent" directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. During fiscal , William . Campbell, Arthur . Levinson and Jerome . York served members the Compensation Committee, none whom were employees the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee. During fiscal year , . Jobs served director Gap Inc. ("Gap") (though not the compensation committee that board directors) and . Drexler served director the Company. . Jobs resigned director Gap September . . Drexler resigned president and CEO Gap September and resigned ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' director Gap October . Subsequently, November , . York resigned from the committee, and . Drexler was appointed member the Compensation Committee. executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information October , (the " Table Date ") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading " Executive Compensation; " and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. Security Ownership Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers User-specified TAGGED TABLE Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Lord, Abbett & , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson , ( ) * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Jonathan Rubinstein , , ( ) * Avadis Tevanian, . , , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , % end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F- filed October , Lord, Abbett & ., Fith Avenue, New York, . ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Cook has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock which . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Tevanian has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\' equity compensation plans (shares thousands). User-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Options ( ) Weighted Average Exercise price Outstanding Options ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , $ , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , $ , ( ) Total equity compensation plans , $ , end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan and , , shares available for issuance under the Executive Officer Stock Plan. does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan which was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) Reflects shares authorized for future issuance under the Employee Stock Option Plan. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted the Named Executive Officers generally provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. ', 'item 13. ': "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, Retail) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lesser ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. ( MicroWarehouse ) January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company' net sales. The Company also purchases products from MicroWarehouse for its own internal use. March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its Chief Executive Officer, . Steven . Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Apple business. The Reimbursement Agreement effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Apple business purposes since took delivery the plane May . During , the Company recognized total $ , , expenses pursuant this reimbursement agreement related expenses incurred . Jobs during and . ", 'item 14. ': 'Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\' management date within days the filing date this Annual Report Form - , the Company\' principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\' disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended ( Exchange Act ) are effective ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' There were significant changes the Company\' internal controls other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent the date their evaluation. There were significant deficiencies material weaknesses, and therefore there were corrective actions taken. However, the design any system controls based part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood future events and there certainty that any design will succeed achieving its stated goal under all potential future considerations, regardless how remote. ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]EQ2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company filed part this report Form - are set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - . . Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto under Part , Item this Form - . . Exhibits The following exhibits are filed part this Form - . User-specified TAGGED TABLE Exhibit Number Description ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. Consent KPMG LLP Certificate Apple Computer, Inc. Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - August , , report that the Company had submitted the Securities and Exchange Commission the Statements under Oath Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer accordance with the SEC\' June , Order requiring the filing sworn statements pursuant Section ( )( ) the Securities and Exchange Act . The Company filed current report Form - August , , report the filing SEC Form Statement Changes Beneficial Ownership filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission . Arthur Levinson August , . ( ) Exhibits Incorporated Reference User-specified TAGGED TABLE Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the Indenture"). insert table folio ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' end table folio Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 99K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through October , . 97K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Director Stock Option Plan. ** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through April , . ** Reimbursement Agreement. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 02K Power Attorney. end user-specified TAGGED TABLE * Notes appear page . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' User-specified TAGGED TABLE NOTES - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . - - , - - , - , - Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed October , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 99K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 02K Incorporated reference Page this Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). end user-specified TAGGED TABLE ZEQ.= ,SEQ= ,EFW=" ", ="APPLE COMPUTER, INC.", =" ",CHK= ,FOLIO=\' \',FILE=\'DISK013:[02PAL1 02PAL2481]JA2481A.; \',USER=\'ILEONG\', =\' -DEC- ; : \' THIS THE END COMPOSITION COMPONENT TOC_END ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}