{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates, and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part —“Risk Factors.” Amazon com, Inc. was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” used herein, “Amazon com,” “ ,” “our,” and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon com opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July . seek Earth’ most customer-centric company. are guided four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment operational excellence, and long-term thinking. each our two geographic segments, serve our primary customer sets, consisting consumers, sellers, enterprises, and content creators. addition, provide services, such advertising services and -branded credit card agreements. manage our business primarily geographic basis. Accordingly, have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. While each reportable operating segment provides similar products and services, majority our technology costs are incurred the . and included our North America segment. Additional information our operating segments and product information contained Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Segment Information.” See Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Results Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Our company-sponsored research and development expense set forth within “Technology and content” Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements Operations.” Consumers serve consumers through our retail websites and focus selection, price, and convenience. design our websites enable millions unique products sold and third parties across dozens product categories. Customers access our websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle -readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, Echo, and Fire phones. strive offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and improve our operating efficiencies that can continue lower prices for our customers. also provide easy- -use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. addition, offer Amazon Prime, annual membership program that includes unlimited free shipping millions items, access unlimited instant streaming thousands movies and episodes, and access hundreds thousands books borrow and read for free Kindle device. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that operate; -sourced and outsourced arrangements certain countries; and digital delivery. operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented -sourced arrangements. See Item Part , “Properties.” Sellers offer programs that enable sellers sell their products our websites and their own branded websites and fulfill orders through . are not the seller record these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, revenue share fees, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Enterprises serve developers and enterprises all sizes through Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), which offers broad set global compute, storage, database, analytics, applications, and deployment services that enable virtually any type business. Content Creators serve authors and independent publishers with Kindle Direct Publishing, online platform that lets independent authors and publishers choose % royalty option and make their books available the Kindle Store, along with Amazon’ own publishing arm, Amazon Publishing. also offer programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others publish and sell content. Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, publishers, vendors, distributors, manufacturers, and producers our products; ( ) other online -commerce and mobile -commerce sites, including sites that sell distribute digital content; ( ) media companies, web portals, comparison shopping websites, web search engines, and social networks, either directly collaboration with other retailers; ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website development, fulfillment, customer service, and payment processing; ( ) companies that provide information storage computing services products, including infrastructure and other web services; and ( ) companies that design, manufacture, market, sell consumer electronics, telecommunication, and electronic devices. believe that the principal competitive factors our retail businesses include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment. Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise services include the quality, speed, and reliability our services and tools. Many our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Other companies also may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered, applied for the registration , number . and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. Additionally, have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter, which ends December . recognized % , %, and % our annual revenue during the fourth quarter , , and . Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel supplement our workforce. have works councils, statutory employee representation obligations, and union agreements certain countries outside the United States. consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry has historically been intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com and encourage investors use way easily finding information about . promptly make available this website, free charge, the reports that file furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), corporate governance information (including our Code Business Conduct and Ethics), and select press releases and social media postings. Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors January , : Executive Officers the Registrant Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Jeffrey . Blackburn Senior Vice President, Business Development Andrew . Jassy Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, International Consumer Business Shelley . Reynolds Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, Consumer Business David . Zapolsky Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President the Company from founding until June and again from October the present. Jeffrey . Blackburn. . Blackburn has served Senior Vice President, Business Development, since April . Andrew . Jassy. . Jassy has served Senior Vice President, Amazon Web Services, since April . Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, International Consumer Business, since February , and Senior Vice President, International Retail, from January until February . Shelley . Reynolds. . Reynolds has served Vice President, Worldwide Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer since April . Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since joining Amazon com October . . Szkutak plans retire June . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, Consumer Business, since February , and Senior Vice President, North America Retail, from January until February . David . Zapolsky. . Zapolsky has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since May , Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from September May , and Vice President and Associate General Counsel for Litigation and Regulatory matters from April until September . Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director, Madrona Venture Group John Seely Brown Visiting Scholar and Advisor the Provost, University Southern California William . Gordon Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Jamie . Gorelick Partner, Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP Judith . McGrath President, Astronauts Wanted * experience necessary Alain Monié Chief Executive Officer, Ingram Micro Inc. Jonathan . Rubinstein Former Chairman and CEO, Palm, Inc. Thomas . Ryder Retired, Former Chairman, Reader’ Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer President and Chief Executive Officer, Martha’ Table ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could materially adversely affected. addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many these risks. Face Intense Competition Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including retail, -commerce services, digital content and electronic devices, and web and infrastructure computing services. Some our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition may intensify our competitors enter into business combinations alliances and established companies other market segments expand become competitive with our business. addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, digital content, and electronic devices, may increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and increased competition may reduce our sales and profits. Our Expansion Places Significant Strain our Management, Operational, Financial, and Other Resources are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure support our retail and services businesses. This expansion increases the complexity our business and places significant strain our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. may not able manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Additional Business, Legal, Financial, and Competitive Risks may have limited experience our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our new offerings. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and may subject claims customers these offerings experience service disruptions failures other quality issues. addition, profitability, any, our newer activities may lower than our older activities, and may not successful enough these newer activities recoup our investments them. any this were occur, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Growth Rate may not able accurately forecast our growth rate. base our expense levels and investment plans sales estimates. significant portion our expenses and investments fixed, and may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products and services offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions worldwide. softening demand, whether caused changes customer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Our sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due risks described elsewhere this section and the following: • our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; • our ability retain and expand our network sellers; • our ability offer products favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; • the introduction competitive websites, products, services, price decreases, improvements; • changes usage adoption rates the Internet, -commerce, electronic devices, and web services, including outside the .; • timing, effectiveness, and costs expansion and upgrades our systems and infrastructure; • the success our geographic, service, and product line expansions; • the extent which finance, and the terms any such financing for, our current operations and future growth; • the outcomes legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant monetary damages injunctive relief and could have material adverse impact our operating results; • variations the mix products and services sell; • variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; • the extent which offer free shipping, continue reduce prices worldwide, and provide additional benefits our customers; • the extent which invest technology and content, fulfillment, and other expense categories; • increases the prices fuel and gasoline, well increases the prices other energy products and commodities like paper and packing supplies; • the extent which our equity-method investees record significant operating and non-operating items; • the extent which operators the networks between our customers and our websites successfully charge fees grant our customers unimpaired and unconstrained access our online services; • our ability collect amounts owed when they become due; • the extent which use our services affected spyware, viruses, phishing and other spam emails, denial service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; and • terrorist attacks and armed hostilities. Our International Operations Expose Number Risks Our international activities are significant our revenues and profits, and plan further expand internationally. certain international market segments, have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages otherwise succeed. costly establish, develop, and maintain international operations and websites, and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not profitable sustained basis. addition risks described elsewhere this section, our international sales and operations are subject number risks, including: • local economic and political conditions; • government regulation -commerce and other services, electronic devices, and competition, and restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs), nationalization, and restrictions foreign ownership; • restrictions sales distribution certain products services and uncertainty regarding liability for products, services, and content, including uncertainty result less Internet-friendly legal systems, local laws, lack legal precedent, and varying rules, regulations, and practices regarding the physical and digital distribution media products and enforcement intellectual property rights; • business licensing certification requirements, such for imports, exports, web services, and electronic devices; • limitations the repatriation and investment funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • limited fulfillment and technology infrastructure; • shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact cash flow; • laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, privacy, network security, encryption, payments, and restrictions pricing discounts; • lower levels use the Internet; • lower levels consumer spending and fewer opportunities for growth compared the .; • lower levels credit card usage and increased payment risk; • difficulty staffing, developing, and managing foreign operations result distance, language, and cultural differences; • different employee employer relationships and the existence works councils and labor unions; • compliance with the . Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable . and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments government officials and other third parties; • laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; and • geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. international -commerce and other online and web services grow, competition will intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand names. may not able hire, train, retain, and manage required personnel, which may limit our international growth. The People’ Republic China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’ and its affiliates’ businesses and operations country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict ( ) foreign investment and operation the Internet, infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, ( ) Internet content, and (iii) the sale media and other products and services. For example, order meet local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, www amazon operated PRC companies that are indirectly owned, either wholly partially, PRC nationals. addition, provide certain technology services conjunction with third parties that hold PRC licenses provide services. India, the government restricts the ownership control Indian companies foreign entities involved online multi-brand retail trading activities. For www amazon , provide certain marketing tools and logistics services third party sellers enable them sell online and deliver customers. Although believe these structures and activities comply with existing laws, they involve unique risks, and the PRC actively considering changes its foreign investment rules that could impact these structures and activities. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation PRC and Indian laws and regulations, and possible that the government will ultimately take view contrary ours. addition, our Chinese and Indian businesses and operations may unable continue operate our affiliates are unable access sufficient funding China enforce contractual relationships with respect management and control such businesses. our international activities were found violation any existing future PRC, Indian other laws regulations interpretations those laws and regulations were change, our businesses those countries could subject fines and other financial penalties, have licenses revoked, forced shut down entirely. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment and Data Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not adequately predict customer demand otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment and data centers successfully, could result excess insufficient fulfillment data center capacity, result increased costs, impairment charges, both, harm our business other ways. continue add fulfillment, warehouse, and data center capability add new businesses with different requirements, our fulfillment and data center networks become increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging. There can assurance that will able operate our networks effectively. addition, failure optimize inventory our fulfillment centers will increase our net shipping cost requiring long-zone partial shipments. Orders from several our websites are fulfilled primarily from single location, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. rely limited number shipping companies deliver inventory and completed orders our customers. are not able negotiate acceptable terms with these companies they experience performance problems other difficulties, could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. addition, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders customers also may negatively affected inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism, acts God, and similar factors. Third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers’ orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality, and future procurement their services. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales occur during our fourth quarter. not stock restock popular products sufficient amounts such that fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could reduce profitability. may experience increase our net shipping cost due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased holiday demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service -sourcers may unable meet the seasonal demand. also face risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment center optimization and inventory. generally have payment terms with our retail vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our consumer customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable December . Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months the year, resulting corresponding decline our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships provide -commerce and other services businesses through commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and business relationships. Under these agreements, provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, well enable sellers offer products services through our websites. These arrangements are complex and require substantial infrastructure capacity, personnel, and other resource commitments, which may limit the amount business can service. may not able implement, maintain, and develop the components these commercial relationships, which may include web services, fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software, and engaging third parties perform services. The amount compensation receive under certain our commercial agreements partially dependent the volume the other company’ sales. Therefore, the other company’ offering not successful, the compensation receive may lower than expected the agreement may terminated. Moreover, may not able enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. also may subject claims from businesses which provide these services are unsuccessful implementing, maintaining, developing these services. our agreements terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. may the future enter into amendments less favorable terms encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future -commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : • disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; • impairment other relationships; • variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and • difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments have acquired and invested number companies, and may acquire invest enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such : • disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; • problems retaining key personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses the businesses acquired which invested; • the potential impairment tangible and intangible assets and goodwill, including result acquisitions; • the potential impairment customer and other relationships the company acquired which invested our own customers result any integration operations; • the difficulty incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related such integration; • the difficulty integrating new company’ accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource, and other administrative systems permit effective management, and the lack control such integration delayed not implemented; • for investments which investee’ financial performance incorporated into our financial results, either full part, the dependence the investee’ accounting, financial reporting, and similar systems, controls, and processes; • the difficulty implementing companies acquire the controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for larger public company; • potential unknown liabilities associated with company acquire which invest; and • for foreign transactions, additional risks related the integration operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. result future acquisitions mergers, might need issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related intangible assets, any which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments other-than-temporary declines fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our international websites and product and service offerings are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. have expanded our international operations, our exposure exchange rate fluctuations has increased. also hold cash equivalents and marketable securities foreign currencies including British Pounds, Chinese Yuan, Euros, and Japanese Yen. the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, CEO, and Chairman. not have “key person” life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. Could Harmed Data Loss Other Security Breaches result our services being web-based and the fact that process, store, and transmit large amounts data, including personal information, for our customers, failure prevent mitigate data loss other security breaches, including breaches our vendors’ technology and systems, could expose our customers risk loss misuse such information, adversely affect our operating results, result litigation potential liability for , and otherwise harm our business. use third party technology and systems for variety reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery customers, back-office support, and other functions. Some subsidiaries had past security breaches, and, although they did not have material adverse effect our operating results, there can assurance similar result the future. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed reduce the impact security breach third party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Face Risks Related System Interruption and Lack Redundancy experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable slow respond and prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. are unable continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps improve the efficiency our systems, could cause system interruptions delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage compensate for any related losses. Any these events could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. Face Significant Inventory Risk addition risks described elsewhere this Item relating fulfillment center and inventory optimization and third parties, are exposed significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes consumer tastes with respect our products, and other factors. endeavor accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking understocking products manufacture and sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory components are ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling manufacturing new product, may difficult establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition certain types inventory components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. may not able discover determine the extent any unauthorized use our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps take protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights prevent third parties from infringing misappropriating our proprietary rights. also cannot certain that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that infringe their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against , the payment damages, including satisfy indemnification obligations. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms that are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own. These risks have been amplified the increase third parties whose sole primary business assert such claims. Our digital content offerings depend part effective digital rights management technology control access digital content. the digital rights management technology that use compromised otherwise malfunctions, could subject claims, and content providers may unwilling include their content our service. Have Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have rapidly evolving business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly response , among other risks, the risks described elsewhere this Item , well : • changes interest rates; • conditions trends the Internet and the industry segments operate ; • quarterly variations operating results; • fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; • changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; • changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; • changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce technology companies; and • transactions our common stock major investors and certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Volatility our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. Government Regulation Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, -commerce, electronic devices, and other services. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic waste, energy consumption, environmental regulation, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, consumer protection, web services, the provision online payment services, information reporting requirements, unencumbered Internet access our services, the design and operation websites, the characteristics and quality products and services, and the commercial operation unmanned aircraft systems. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply the Internet, -commerce, digital content, and web services. Jurisdictions may regulate consumer- -consumer online businesses, including certain aspects our seller programs. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. Not Collect Sales Consumption Taxes Some Jurisdictions . Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales taxes with respect remote sales. However, increasing number states have considered adopted laws administrative practices that attempt impose obligations out- -state retailers collect taxes their behalf. support Federal law that would allow states require sales tax collection under nationwide system. More than half our revenue already earned jurisdictions where collect sales tax its equivalent. successful assertion one more states foreign countries requiring collect taxes where not could result substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, well penalties and interest. Could Subject Additional Income Tax Liabilities are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices various jurisdictions may subject significant change due economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment required evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course business for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Our effective tax rates could adversely affected earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions where have higher statutory rates, losses incurred jurisdictions for which are not able realize the related tax benefit, changes foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes the tax laws applicable corporate multinationals. The ., many countries the European Union, and number other countries are actively considering changes this regard. Except required under . tax laws, not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . our intent changes these funds are needed for our . operations, would required accrue pay . taxes some all these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would adversely affected. are also subject audit various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against . addition, October , the European Commission opened formal investigation examine whether decisions the tax authorities Luxembourg with regard the corporate income tax paid certain our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. this matter adversely resolved, Luxembourg may required assess, and may required pay, additional amounts with respect current and prior periods and our taxes the future could increase. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments audit, litigation, the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that development occurs, well for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, the IRS seeking increase our . taxable income related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for transactions undertaken and , and are currently contesting the matter . Tax Court. addition the risk additional tax for and transactions, this litigation adversely determined the IRS were seek transfer pricing adjustments similar nature for transactions subsequent years, Amazon could subject significant additional tax liabilities. Our Supplier Relationships Subject Number Risks have significant suppliers, including licensors, and some cases, limited single-sources supply, that are important our sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing merchandise and content. not have long-term arrangements with most our suppliers guarantee availability merchandise, content, components, services, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current suppliers were stop selling licensing merchandise, content, components, services acceptable terms, delay delivery, including result one more supplier bankruptcies due poor economic conditions, result natural disasters, for other reasons, may unable procure alternatives from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms, all. addition, our suppliers other vendors violate applicable laws, regulations, our code standards and responsibilities, implement practices regarded unethical, unsafe, hazardous the environment, could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. May Subject Risks Related Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations Our contracts with ., well state, local, and foreign, government entities are subject various procurement regulations and other requirements relating their formation, administration, and performance. may subject audits and investigations relating our government contracts, and any violations could result various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination contract, refunding suspending payments, forfeiture profits, payment fines, and suspension debarment from future government business. addition, such contracts may provide for termination the government any time, without cause. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some the products sell manufacture may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death, environmental property damage, and may require product recalls other actions. Certain third parties also sell products using our -commerce platform that may increase our exposure product liability claims, such these sellers not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our agreements with our vendors and sellers not indemnify from product liability. Are Subject Payments-Related Risks accept payments using variety methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift cards, direct debit from customer’ bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check, and payment upon delivery. For existing and future payment options offer our customers, may become subject additional regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations implement enhanced authentication processes that could result significant costs and reduce the ease use our payments products), well fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. rely third parties provide certain Amazon-branded payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing. each case, could disrupt our business these companies become unwilling unable provide these services . also offer -branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results terminated. are also subject payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change reinterpreted make difficult impossible for comply. fail comply with these rules requirements, our data security systems are breached compromised, may liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject fines and higher transaction fees, and lose our ability accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, facilitate other types online payments, and our business and operating results could adversely affected. addition, provide regulated services certain jurisdictions because enable customers keep account balances with and transfer money third parties, and because provide services third parties facilitate payments their behalf. these jurisdictions, may subject requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding and capital maintenance, the use, handling, and segregation transferred funds, consumer disclosures, and authentication. are also subject voluntarily comply with number other laws and regulations relating payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security, and electronic fund transfers. were found violation applicable laws regulations, could subject additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, forced cease providing certain services. Could Liable for Fraudulent Unlawful Activities Sellers The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, governmental agencies could require changes the way this business conducted. Under our seller programs, may unable prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered when the products received are materially different from the sellers’ descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, reimburse buyers for payments certain limits these situations, and our marketplace seller sales grow, the cost this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. also may unable prevent sellers our sites through other seller sites from selling unlawful goods, selling goods unlawful manner, violating the proprietary rights others, and could face civil criminal liability for unlawful activities our sellers. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties December , , operated the following facilities ( thousands): Description Use Square Footage ( ) Location Lease Expirations Owned office space , North America Leased office space , North America From through Leased office space , International From through Sub-total , Owned fulfillment, data centers, and other North America Leased fulfillment, data centers, and other , North America From through Owned fulfillment, data centers, and other International Leased fulfillment, data centers, and other , International From through Sub-total , Total , ___________________ ( ) For leased properties, represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. own and lease our corporate headquarters Seattle, Washington. Additionally, own and lease corporate office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, warehouse operations, data center, customer service, and other facilities, principally North America, Europe, and Asia. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant’ Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock traded the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” The following table sets forth the high and low per share sale prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, reported the NASDAQ Global Select Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders January , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases Equity Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. Year Ended December , ( millions, except per share data) Statements Operations: Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Income from operations $ $ $ $ $ , Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ , Basic earnings per share ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ Diluted earnings per share ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ $ Weighted average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Statements Cash Flows: Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Free cash flow ( ) $ , $ , $ $ , $ , December , ( millions) Balance Sheets: Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total long-term obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) For further discussion earnings per share, see Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies.” ( ) Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, defined net cash provided operating activities less cash expenditures for purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. See Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Results Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information well alternative free cash flow measures. ', 'item 7. ': 'Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’ current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon com invests new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, the extent which owe income taxes, competition, management growth, potential fluctuations operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks inventory management, seasonality, the degree which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many these risks. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management’ expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , “Risk Factors.” Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers . The products offered our consumer-facing websites primarily include merchandise and content have purchased for resale from vendors and those offered third-party sellers, and also manufacture and sell electronic devices. Generally, recognize gross revenue from items sell from our inventory product sales and recognize our net share revenue items sold other sellers service sales. also offer other services such AWS, fulfillment, publishing, digital content subscriptions, advertising, and -branded credit cards. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow per share. Free cash flow driven primarily increasing operating income and efficiently managing working capital and cash capital expenditures. Increases operating income primarily result from increases sales products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset investments make longer-term strategic initiatives. increase sales products and services, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust. also seek efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders’ interests. utilize restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation because believe this compensation model aligns the long-term interests our shareholders and employees. measuring shareholder dilution, include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, without regard estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were million and million December , and . seek reduce our variable costs per unit and work leverage our fixed costs. Our variable costs include product and content costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, costs necessary run AWS, and portion our marketing costs. Our fixed costs include the costs necessary run our technology infrastructure; build, enhance, and add features our websites and web services, our electronic devices, and digital offerings; and build and optimize our fulfillment centers. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally are dependent the timing capacity needs, geographic expansion, category expansion, and other factors. decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers, seek increase our direct sourcing, increase discounts from suppliers, and reduce defects our processes. minimize growth fixed costs, seek improve process efficiencies and maintain lean culture. _______________________ ( ) Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, defined net cash provided operating activities less cash expenditures for purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our consolidated statements cash flows. See “Results Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for additional information well alternative free cash flow measures. ( ) Working capital consists accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable. Because our model are able turn our inventory quickly and have cash-generating operating cycle . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from consumers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was for , , and . expect variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our product mix, the mix sales and other sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability and selection product offerings, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize third-party fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and for , , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since they are affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix sales other sellers, the mix suppliers, seasonality, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect balancing pricing and timing payment terms with suppliers. expect spending technology and content will increase over time add computer scientists, designers, software and hardware engineers, and merchandising employees. Our technology and content investment and capital spending projects often support variety product and service offerings due geographic expansion and the cross-functionality our systems and operations. seek efficiently invest several areas technology and content such web services, expansion new and existing product categories and offerings, and initiatives expand our ecosystem digital products and services, well technology infrastructure enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiencies. believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power and the advances wireless connectivity, will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase its ubiquity people’ lives. best take advantage these continued advances technology, are investing initiatives build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices. are also investing AWS, which provides technology services that give developers and enterprises all sizes access technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type business. Our financial reporting currency the . Dollar and changes foreign exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends . For example, the . Dollar weakens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will higher than currencies had remained constant. Likewise, the . Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative currencies our international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will lower than currencies had remained constant. believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long-term. also believe useful evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect currency changes. addition, the remeasurement our intercompany balances can result significant gains and charges associated with the effect movements foreign currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons. For additional information about each line item summarized above, refer Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles the United States (“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company’ critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company’ financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information, see Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies.” Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. _______________________ ( ) The operating cycle the number days sales inventory plus the number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. ( ) Inventory turnover the quotient trailing twelve month cost sales average inventory over five quarter ends. ( ) Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable current quarter cost sales, multiplied the number days the current quarter. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first- first-out (“FIFO”) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition inventory are inherently uncertain and changes our estimates and assumptions may cause realize material write-downs the future. measure sensitivity, for every % additional inventory valuation allowance December , , would have recorded additional cost sales approximately $ million. addition, enter into supplier commitments for certain electronic device components. These commitments are based forecasted customer demand. reduce these commitments, may incur additional costs. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment annually more frequently when event occurs circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Our annual testing date October . test goodwill for impairment first comparing the book value net assets the fair value the reporting units. the fair value determined less than the book value qualitative factors indicate that more likely than not that goodwill impaired, second step performed compute the amount impairment the difference between the estimated fair value goodwill and the carrying value. estimate the fair value the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts future cash flows are based our best estimate future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and developing revenue models. Changes these forecasts could significantly change the amount impairment recorded, any. During the year, management monitored the actual performance the business relative the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, triggering events were identified that required interim impairment test. measure sensitivity, % decrease the fair value any our reporting units December , , would have had impact the carrying value our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost capital that use determine discount rate and through our stock price that use determine our market capitalization. During times volatility, significant judgment must applied determine whether credit stock price changes are short-term nature longer-term trend. have not made any significant changes the accounting methodology used evaluate goodwill impairment. Changes our estimated future cash flows and asset fair values may cause realize material impairment charges the future. measure sensitivity, prolonged % decrease from our December , closing stock price would not indicator possible impairment. Stock-Based Compensation measure compensation cost for stock awards fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for awards expected vest. The fair value restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. The estimated number stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee classification, economic environment, and historical experience. update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. have not made any significant changes the accounting methodology used evaluate stock-based compensation. Changes our estimates and assumptions may cause realize material changes stock-based compensation expense the future. measure sensitivity, % change our estimated forfeiture rate would have had approximately $ million impact our operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rate December , and was %. utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over % the compensation cost related award vesting ratably over four years expensed the first year. forfeited early the life award, the compensation expense adjustment much greater under accelerated method than under straight-line method. Income Taxes are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices various jurisdictions may subject significant change due economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment required evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course business for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. Our effective tax rates could adversely affected earnings being lower than anticipated jurisdictions where have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated jurisdictions where have higher statutory rates, losses incurred jurisdictions for which are not able realize the related tax benefit, changes foreign currency exchange rates, entry into new businesses and geographies and changes our existing businesses, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, changes our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, including fundamental changes the tax laws applicable corporate multinationals. The ., many countries the European Union, and number other countries are actively considering changes this regard. Except required under . tax laws, not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . our intent changes these funds are needed for our . operations, would required accrue pay . taxes some all these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would adversely affected. are also subject audit various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against . addition, October , the European Commission opened formal investigation examine whether decisions the tax authorities Luxembourg with regard the corporate income tax paid certain our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. this matter adversely resolved, Luxembourg may required assess, and may required pay, additional amounts with respect current and prior periods and our taxes the future could increase. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome tax audits, investigations, and any related litigation could materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments audit, litigation, the relevant laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could have material effect our operating results cash flows the period periods for which that development occurs, well for prior and subsequent periods. For instance, the IRS seeking increase our . taxable income related transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for transactions undertaken and , and are currently contesting the matter . Tax Court. addition the risk additional tax for and transactions, this litigation adversely determined the IRS were seek transfer pricing adjustments similar nature for transactions subsequent years, Amazon could subject significant additional tax liabilities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Cash provided (used ): Operating activities $ , $ , $ , Investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities , ( ) , Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow. Free cash flow, non-GAAP financial measure, was $ billion for , compared $ billion and $ million for and . See “Results Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for reconciliation free cash flow cash provided operating activities. The decrease free cash flow for , compared the comparable prior year period, was due increased cash capital expenditures partially offset higher operating cash flows. The increase free cash flow for , compared the comparable prior year period, was due higher operating cash flows and decreased cash capital expenditures. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can volatile and are sensitive many factors, including changes working capital, the timing and magnitude capital expenditures, including our decision finance property and equipment under capital leases and other financing arrangements, and our net income (loss). Working capital any specific point time subject many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, fair value, were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion December , , , and . Cash and cash equivalents also reflects net proceeds from the issuance $ billion long-term debt December , . Amounts held foreign currencies were $ billion , $ billion, and $ billion December , , , and , and were primarily British Pounds, Chinese Yuan, Euros, and Japanese Yen. Cash provided operating activities was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, advertising agreements, and our -branded credit card agreements, offset cash payments make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related internal-use software that are reflected cash used investing activities), payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase operating cash flow , compared the comparable prior year period, was primarily due the increase non-cash charges net income, including depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, partially offset changes working capital. The increase operating cash flow , compared the comparable prior year period, was primarily due the increase net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation, partially offset changes working capital. Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities marketable securities. Cash provided (used ) investing activities was $( ) billion , $( ) billion , and $( ) billion , , and , with the variability caused primarily changes capital expenditures, purchases, maturities, and sales marketable securities and other investments, and changes cash paid for acquisitions. Cash capital expenditures were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion during , , and . December , acquired buildings comprising million square feet our previously leased corporate office space and three city blocks Seattle, Washington for $ billion. Excluding this acquisition, increases capital expenditures primarily reflect additional capacity support our fulfillment operations and additional investments support continued business growth due investments technology infrastructure, including AWS, during all three periods. expect this trend continue over time. Capital expenditures included $ million, $ million, and $ million for internal-use software and website development during , , and . Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. , , and , made cash payments, net acquired cash, related acquisition and other investment activity $ million , $ million , and $ million . Additionally, January , signed agreement acquire technology company for approximately $ million cash, which expect satisfy with cash hand. expect the acquisition close the first half , subject closing conditions. Cash provided (used ) financing activities was $ billion , $( ) million , and $ billion , , and . Cash outflows from financing activities result from common stock repurchases, principal payments obligations related capital and finance leases, and repayments long-term debt. Principal payments obligations related capital leases, finance leases, and repayments long-term debt were $ billion , $ billion , and $ million , , and . Property and equipment acquired under capital leases were $ billion , $ billion , and $ million , , and , with the increases reflecting additional investments support continued business growth primarily due investments technology infrastructure for AWS. expect this trend continue over time. repurchased million shares common stock for $ million under the $ billion repurchase program authorized our Board Directors January . Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from long-term debt and other were $ billion , $ million , and $ billion , , and . During , cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily net proceeds from the issuance $ billion senior nonconvertible unsecured debt five tranches maturing through . During , cash inflows from financing activities consisted primarily net proceeds from the issuance $ billion senior nonconvertible unsecured debt three tranches maturing through . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion the notes. Tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related stock-based compensation deductions were $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . September , entered into unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with syndicate lenders that provides with borrowing capacity $ billion. had borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement December , . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Long-Term Debt” for additional information. , , and recorded net tax provisions $ million , $ million , and $ million . Except required under . tax laws, not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . our intent changes these funds are needed for our . operations, would required accrue pay . taxes some all these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would adversely affected. December , , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held foreign subsidiaries were $ billion, which included undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside the . $ billion . have tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. December , . legislation was enacted providing one year extension accelerated depreciation deductions qualifying property through . Cash taxes paid (net refunds) were $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . December , , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $ billion and had approximately $ million federal tax credits potentially available offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related the . federal research and development credit, which expired . utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, expect cash paid for taxes significantly increase. endeavor manage our global taxes cash basis, rather than financial reporting basis. Our liquidity also affected restricted cash balances that are pledged collateral for standby and trade letters credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. the extent process payments for third-party sellers offer certain types stored value our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use those funds. These restrictions would result the reclassification portion our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” “Accounts receivable, net and other” our consolidated balance sheets. December , and , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $ million and $ million . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion our principal contractual commitments, well our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $ billion December , . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable full part through the contractual provisions. average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from consumers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was for , , and . expect variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our product mix, the mix sales and third-party sellers, our continuing focus -stock inventory availability and selection product offerings, our investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent which choose utilize third-party fulfillment providers. believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, and borrowing available under our credit agreements will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , “Risk Factors.” continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities, obtain capital, finance, and operating lease arrangements, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, capital infrastructure and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause secure additional financing, issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that additional lines- -credit financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale products and related shipping fees and digital media content where record revenue gross. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities such AWS, advertising services, and our -branded credit card agreements. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales and amortized over the life the membership according the estimated delivery services. Net sales information follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Net Sales: North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Total consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America % % % International Total consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect foreign exchange rates: North America % % % International Total consolidated Net Sales Mix: North America % % % International Total consolidated % % % Sales increased % , % , and % , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods. Changes foreign currency exchange rates impacted net sales $( ) million , $( ) billion , and $( ) million for , , and . For discussion the effect sales growth foreign exchange rates, see “Effect Foreign Exchange Rates” below. North America sales increased % , % , and % , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales marketplace sellers, and AWS, which was partially offset AWS pricing changes. Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, sales faster growing categories such electronics and other general merchandise, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection product offerings. International sales increased % , % , and % , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods. The sales growth each year primarily reflects increased unit sales, including sales marketplace sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely our continued efforts reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, sales faster growing categories such electronics and other general merchandise, increased -stock inventory availability, and increased selection product offerings. Additionally, changes foreign currency exchange rates impacted International net sales $( ) million , $( ) billion , and $( ) million , , and . Supplemental Information Supplemental information about outbound shipping results follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Outbound Shipping Activity: Shipping revenue ( )( )( ) $ , $ , $ , Shipping costs ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net shipping cost $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Shipping revenue % % % Shipping costs Net shipping cost Percent Net Sales: Shipping revenue % % % Shipping costs ( ) ( ) ( ) Net shipping cost ( )% ( )% ( )% ___________________ ( ) Excludes amounts earned shipping activities third-party sellers where not provide the fulfillment service. ( ) Includes portion amounts earned from Amazon Prime memberships. ( ) Includes amounts earned from Fulfillment Amazon programs related shipping services. ( ) Includes sortation and delivery center costs. expect our net cost shipping continue increase the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers increasing rate, our product mix shifts the electronics and other general merchandise category, reduce shipping rates, use more expensive shipping methods, and offer additional services. seek mitigate costs shipping over time part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing placement fulfillment centers, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success, and one way offer lower prices through shipping offers. have aggregated our products and services into groups similar products and services and provided the supplemental disclosure net sales ( millions) below. evaluate whether additional disclosure appropriate when product service category begins approach significant level net sales. For the periods presented, individual product service represented more than % net sales. Year Ended December , Net Sales: North America Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) , , , Total North America $ , $ , $ , International Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) Total International $ , $ , $ , Consolidated Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) , , , Total consolidated $ , $ , $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: North America Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media — % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding effect foreign exchange rates: International Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total International Consolidated Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated Consolidated Net Sales Mix: Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total consolidated % % % _____________________________ ( ) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such AWS sales, which are included the North America segment, and advertising services and our -branded credit card agreements, which are included both segments. Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Reported Stock-Based Compensation Net Operating Expenses: Cost sales $ , $ — $ , $ , $ — $ , $ , $ — $ , Fulfillment , ( ) , , ( ) , , ( ) , Marketing , ( ) , , ( ) , , ( ) , Technology and content , ( ) , , ( ) , , ( ) , General and administrative , ( ) , , ( ) ( ) Other operating expense (income), net — — — Total operating expenses $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Year-over-year Percentage Growth: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Percent Net Sales: Fulfillment % % % % % % Marketing Technology and content General and administrative Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” and Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Description Business and Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation.” recorded charges related Fire phone inventory valuation and supplier commitment costs, substantially all which, $ million, was recorded during the third quarter . Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products and digital media content where record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, packaging supplies, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including sortation and delivery centers, and related equipment costs. Shipping costs receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory, and recognized cost sales upon sale products our customers. The increase cost sales absolute dollars , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased product, digital media content, and shipping costs resulting from increased sales, well from expansion digital offerings. The increase was also impacted Fire phone inventory valuation and supplier commitment costs. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each the periods presented were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Gross profit $ , $ , $ , Gross margin % % % Gross margin increased , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due service sales increasing percentage total sales. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities such AWS, advertising services, and our -branded credit card agreements. believe that income (loss) from operations more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due the diversity our product categories and services. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs percentage net sales may vary due several factors, such payment processing and related transaction costs, our level productivity and accuracy, changes volume, size, and weight units received and fulfilled, timing fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent utilize fulfillment services provided third parties, mix products and services sold, and our ability affect customer service contacts per unit implementing improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based the gross purchase price underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher percentage sales versus our retail sales, sales our sellers have higher fulfillment costs percent net sales. The increase fulfillment costs absolute dollars , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and service sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs. seek expand our fulfillment capacity accommodate greater selection and -stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales our own products well sales third parties for which provide the fulfillment services. evaluate our facility requirements necessary. Marketing direct customers our websites primarily through number targeted online marketing channels, such our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based growth sales and changes rates. the extent there increased decreased competition for these traffic sources, the extent our mix these channels shifts, would expect see corresponding change our marketing expense. The increase marketing costs absolute dollars , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased spending online marketing channels, such our sponsored search programs, payroll and related expenses, and television advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included marketing expense, view these offers effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend continue offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content seek efficiently invest several areas technology and content such technology infrastructure, including AWS, expansion new and existing product categories and offerings, and initiatives expand our ecosystem digital products and services, well technology infrastructure may continue enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments while operating ever increasing scale. expect spending technology and content increase over time continue add employees and technology infrastructure. Digital media content where record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, included cost sales. Technology costs consist principally research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, well AWS and other technology infrastructure expenses. Content costs consist principally payroll and related expenses for employees involved category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. The increase technology and content costs absolute dollars , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increased spending technology infrastructure, including AWS, and increases payroll and related expenses, including those associated with our initiatives expand our ecosystem digital products and services. expect these trends continue over time invest these areas increasing payroll and related expenses and adding technology infrastructure. For , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), and $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation) costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . majority our technology costs are incurred the ., most which are allocated our North America segment. Infrastructure, other technology, and operating costs incurred support AWS are included technology and content. General and Administrative The increase general and administrative costs absolute dollars , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increases payroll and related expenses and professional service fees. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $ billion , $ billion , and $ million during , , and . The increase , , and , compared the comparable prior year periods, primarily due increase the number stock-based compensation awards granted existing and new employees. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was $ million , $ million , and $ million during , , and , and was primarily related the amortization intangible assets. Income from Operations For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased % , increased % , and decreased % . Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $ million , $ million , and $ million during , , and . generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds based the prevailing rates, which vary depending the geographies and currencies which they are invested. The primary components our interest expense are related our long-term debt and capital and finance lease arrangements. Interest expense was $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . Our long-term debt was $ billion and $ billion December , and . Our other long-term liabilities were $ billion and $ billion December , and . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note —Long-Term Debt and Note —Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was $( ) million , $( ) million , and $( ) million during , , and . The primary component other income (expense), net related foreign-currency gains (losses). Income Taxes Our effective tax rate subject significant variation due several factors, including variability our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix jurisdictions which they relate, changes how business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes expenses losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can more less volatile based the amount pre-tax income loss. For example, the impact discrete items and non-deductible expenses our effective tax rate greater when our pre-tax income lower. recorded provision for income taxes $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . Our provision for income taxes was higher than primarily due the increased losses certain foreign subsidiaries for which may not realize tax benefit and audit-related developments, partially offset the favorable impact earnings lower tax rate jurisdictions. Losses for which may not realize related tax benefit reduce our pre-tax income without corresponding reduction our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which may not realize related tax benefit. Income earned lower tax jurisdictions primarily related our European operations, which are headquartered Luxembourg. , our provision for income taxes was lower than primarily due decline the proportion our losses for which may not realize related tax benefit, the favorable impact earnings lower tax rate jurisdictions, and the retroactive extension the . federal research and development credit . , recognized tax benefits for greater proportion losses for which may not realize tax benefit, primarily due losses certain foreign subsidiaries, compared . The favorable impact earnings lower tax rate jurisdictions was primarily related our European operations. have tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. December , . legislation was enacted providing one year extension accelerated depreciation deductions qualifying property and the . federal research and development credit through December , . December , , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $ billion and had approximately $ million federal tax credits potentially available offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related the . federal research and development credit, which expired . See Item Part , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note -Income Taxes” for additional information. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net Tax Equity-method investment activity, net tax, was $ million , $( ) million , and $( ) million , , and . Details the activity are provided below ( millions): Year Ended December , Equity earnings (loss) LivingSocial: Impairment charges recorded LivingSocial $ — $ ( ) $ ( ) Gain existing equity interests, LivingSocial acquisitions — — Operating and other earnings (losses) ( ) ( ) ( ) Total equity earnings (loss) LivingSocial ( ) ( ) Other equity-method investment activity: Amazon dilution gains LivingSocial investment — — Other, net ( ) ( ) Total other equity-method investment activity ( ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ___________________ ( ) Includes $ million gain related LivingSocial’ disposal its Korean operations the first quarter . Effect Foreign Exchange Rates The effect our consolidated statements operations from changes foreign exchange rates versus the . Dollar follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Prior Year Rates ( ) Exchange Rate Effect ( ) Reported Net sales $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , Operating expenses , ( ) , , ( , ) , , ( ) , Income (loss) from operations ( ) ( ) ___ ________________ ( ) Represents the outcome that would have resulted had foreign exchange rates the reported period been the same those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results. ( ) Represents the increase decrease reported amounts resulting from changes foreign exchange rates from those effect the comparable prior year period for operating results. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures “Free cash flow,” operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect foreign exchange rates our consolidated statements operations, meet the definition non-GAAP financial measures. provide multiple measures free cash flow, and ratios based them, because believe these measures provide additional perspective the impact acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. Free cash flow cash flow from operations reduced “Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development,” which are included cash flow from investing activities. The following reconciliation free cash flow the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ , $ ( ) $ , Free cash flow less lease principal repayments free cash flow reduced “Principal repayments capital lease obligations,” and “Principal repayments finance lease obligations,” which are included cash flow from financing activities. The following reconciliation free cash flow less lease principal repayments the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Principal repayments capital lease obligations ( , ) ( ) ( ) Principal repayments finance lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow less lease principal repayments $ $ , $ ( ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ , $ ( ) $ , Free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases free cash flow reduced “Principal repayments finance lease obligations,” which are included cash flow from financing activities, and property and equipment acquired under capital leases. this measure, property and equipment acquired under capital leases reflected these assets had been acquired with cash. The following reconciliation free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,” for , , and ( millions): Year Ended December , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Principal repayments finance lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Free cash flow less finance principal lease repayments and capital acquired under capital leases $ ( , ) $ $ ( ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ , $ ( ) $ , All these free cash flow measures have limitations they omit certain components the overall cash flow statement and not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures free cash flow not incorporate the portion payments representing principal reductions debt cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, our mix property and equipment acquisitions with cash other financing options may change over time. Therefore, believe important view free cash flow measures only complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation provided show the impact stock-based compensation, which non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance (although consider the dilutive impact our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation not allocated segment results and therefore excluding from operating expenses consistent with our segment presentation our footnotes the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since does not include all expenses primarily related our workforce. More specifically, did not pay out portion our compensation the form stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included the “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative” line items would higher. Information regarding the effect foreign exchange rates, versus the . Dollar, our consolidated statements operations provided show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same those effect the comparable prior year period. Guidance provided guidance January , , our earnings release furnished Form - set forth below. These forward-looking statements reflect Amazon com’ expectations January , , and are subject substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may materially affected many factors, such fluctuations foreign exchange rates, changes global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate growth the Internet and online commerce, well those outlined Item Part , “Risk Factors.” First Quarter Guidance • Net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion , grow between % and % compared with first quarter . • Operating income (loss) expected between $( ) million and $ million , compared $ million first quarter . • This guidance includes approximately $ million for stock-based compensation and amortization intangible assets, and assumes, among other things, that additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, legal settlements are concluded and that there are further revisions stock-based compensation estimates. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk set forth below and Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. Our long-term debt carried amortized cost and fluctuations interest rates not impact our consolidated financial statements. However, the fair value our debt, which pay interest fixed rate, will generally fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our consolidated balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our current and long-term cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , ( millions, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Money market funds $ , $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % — % — % — % — % — % % Corporate debt securities — — Weighted average interest rate % % % % — % — % % . government and agency securities , — , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % % — % % Asset backed securities — — — Weighted average interest rate % % % — % — % — % % Foreign government and agency securities — — — Weighted average interest rate % % — % — % — % — % % Other securities — — Weighted average interest rate % % % % — % — % % $ , $ $ $ $ $ — $ , Cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities $ , December , , had $ billion debt, including the current portion, primarily consisting the following fixed rate unsecured debt ( millions): % Notes due November , $ % Notes due November , $ , % Notes due November , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due December , $ , % Notes due December , $ , The fair value our debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices and Level inputs, the fair value our total debt was $ billion December , . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our internationally focused websites, well those relating www amazon and www amazon com (which are included our North America segment), are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites and primarily include British Pounds, Chinese Yuan, Euros, and Japanese Yen. The results operations , and certain our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. For example, result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues decreased $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (“foreign funds”). Based the balance foreign funds December , , $ billion , assumed %, %, and % adverse change foreign exchange would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ billion. All investments are classified “available-for-sale.” Fluctuations fair value are recorded “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” separate component stockholders’ equity. have foreign exchange risk related our intercompany balances denominated various foreign currencies. Based the intercompany balances December , , assumed %, %, and % adverse change foreign exchange would result losses $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded “Other income (expense), net.” See Item Part , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations—Results Operations—Effect Foreign Exchange Rates” for additional information the effect reported results changes foreign exchange rates. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity investments was $ million. These investments primarily relate equity-method and cost-method investments private companies. review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline fair value such assets below the carrying value other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review recent operating results and trends, recent sales acquisitions the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations private companies are inherently more complex due the lack readily available market data. such, believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company’ management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Amazon com, Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Year Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) net cash from operating activities: Depreciation property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development, and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , Other operating expense (income), net Losses (gains) sales marketable securities, net ( ) ( ) Other expense (income), net Deferred income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Accounts receivable, net and other ( , ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable , , , Accrued expenses and other , Additions unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , , , INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchases property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Acquisitions, net cash acquired, and other ( ) ( ) ( ) Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , Purchases marketable securities and other investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation Common stock repurchased — — ( ) Proceeds from long-term debt and other , , Repayments long-term debt ( ) ( ) ( ) Principal repayments capital lease obligations ( , ) ( ) ( ) Principal repayments finance lease obligations ( ) ( ) ( ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities , ( ) , Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) ( ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Cash paid for interest long-term debt $ $ $ Cash paid for income taxes (net refunds) Property and equipment acquired under capital leases , , Property and equipment acquired under build- -suit leases See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except per share data) Year Ended December , Net product sales $ , $ , $ , Net service sales , , , Total net sales , , , Operating expenses ( ): Cost sales , , , Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , Other operating expense (income), net Total operating expenses , , , Income from operations Interest income Interest expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total non-operating income (expense) ( ) ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before income taxes ( ) Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Basic earnings per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Diluted earnings per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted _____________ ( ) Includes stock-based compensation follows: Fulfillment $ $ $ Marketing Technology and content General and administrative See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Year Ended December , Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation adjustments, net tax $( ), $( ), and $( ) ( ) Net change unrealized gains available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses), net tax $ , $ , and $( ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses (gains) included “Other income (expense), net,” net tax $( ), $( ), and $ ( ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities ( ) ( ) Total other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Comprehensive income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except per share data) December , ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Goodwill , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other , , Unearned revenue , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term debt , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies (Note ) Stockholders’ equity: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares — Issued and outstanding shares — none — — Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares — , Issued shares — and Outstanding shares — and Treasury stock, cost ( , ) ( , ) Additional paid- capital , , Accumulated other comprehensive loss ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , , Total stockholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions) Common Stock Shares Amount Treasury Stock Additional Paid- Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Retained Earnings Total Stockholders’ Equity Balance January , $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , Net loss — — — — — ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income — — — — — Exercise common stock options — — — — Repurchase common stock ( ) — ( ) — — — ( ) Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — — — Issuance common stock for acquisition activity — — — — — Balance December , ( , ) , ( ) , , Net income — — — — — Other comprehensive income — — — — — Exercise common stock options — — — — Repurchase common stock — — — — — — — Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Balance December , ( , ) , ( ) , , Net loss — — — — — ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive loss — — — — ( ) — ( ) Exercise common stock options — — — — Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation — — — — — Stock-based compensation and issuance employee benefit plan stock — — — , — — , Issuance common stock for acquisition activity — — — — — Balance December , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note —DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com opened its virtual doors the World Wide Web July . seek Earth’ most customer-centric company. each our two geographic segments, serve our primary customer sets, consisting consumers, sellers, enterprises, and content creators. serve consumers through our retail websites and focus selection, price, and convenience. also manufacture and sell electronic devices. offer programs that enable sellers sell their products our websites and their own branded websites and fulfill orders through , and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others publish and sell content. serve developers and enterprises all sizes through AWS, which provides access technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type business. addition, provide services, such advertising services and -branded credit card agreements. have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. See “Note —Segment Information.” Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified conform the current period presentation, including the expanded presentation “Net cash provided (used ) financing activities” our consolidated statements cash flows and components the provision for income taxes “Note —Income Taxes.” Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Amazon com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities which have variable interest and which are the primary beneficiary (collectively, the “Company”). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , determining the selling price products and services multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the lives these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability receivables, valuation acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect stock awards determined under the treasury stock method. periods when have net loss, stock awards million and million and , were excluded their inclusion would have antidilutive effect. The following table shows the calculation diluted shares ( millions): Year Ended December , Shares used computation basic earnings per share Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards — — Shares used computation diluted earnings per share Revenue recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred service has been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectability reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue allocated using estimated selling prices not have vendor-specific objective evidence third-party evidence the selling prices the deliverables. allocate the arrangement price each the elements based the relative selling prices each element. Estimated selling prices are management’ best estimates the prices that would charge our customers were sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations customer demand, prices charged and others for similar deliverables, and the price largely based the cost producing the product service. Sales our digital devices, including Kindle -readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, Echo, and Fire phones, are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting the device, undelivered software upgrades and undelivered non-software services such cloud storage and free trial memberships other services. The revenue allocated the device, which the substantial portion the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related undelivered software upgrades and undelivered non-software services deferred and recognized generally straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided for each these devices. Sales Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Instant Video, Prime Music, Prime Photo, and access the Kindle Owners’ Lending Library. The revenue related the deliverables amortized over the life the membership based the estimated delivery services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized cost sales incurred. add more benefits the Prime membership, will update the method determining the estimated selling prices each element well the allocation Prime membership fees. evaluate whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are primarily obligated transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded the gross sale price. generally record the net amounts commissions earned are not primarily obligated and not have latitude establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two. Product sales represent revenue from the sale products and related shipping fees and digital media content where record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail sales customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Amazon’ electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized the point sale consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities such AWS, advertising services, and our -branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Additions the allowance were $ billion , $ million , and $ million , and deductions the allowance were $ billion , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Revenue from product sales and services rendered recorded net sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount “Total net sales.” Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products and digital media content where record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, packaging supplies, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including sortation and delivery centers, and related equipment costs. Shipping costs receive products from our suppliers are included our inventory, and recognized cost sales upon sale products our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified “Fulfillment” our consolidated statements operations. Vendor Agreements have agreements with our vendors receive funds for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. generally consider amounts received from vendors reduction the prices pay for their goods services, and therefore record those amounts reduction the cost inventory cost services. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. evaluate the likelihood reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can reasonably estimated, record portion the rebate make progress towards the purchase threshold. When receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred advertising the vendor’ product service, the amount receive recorded offset “Marketing” our consolidated statements operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing, business development, and selling activities. pay commissions participants our Associates program when their customer referrals result product sales and classify such costs “Marketing” our consolidated statements operations. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors, and other third parties. Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed incurred and were $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology costs consist principally research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, well AWS and other technology infrastructure expenses. Content costs consist principally payroll and related expenses for employees involved category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for employees involved general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others; costs associated with use these functions facilities and equipment, such depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock awards expected vest measured fair value the date grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value restricted stock units determined based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock and the fair value stock options are estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes model. Such value recognized expense over the service period, net estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and the extent actual results updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will recorded cumulative adjustment the period estimates are revised. consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee classification, economic environment, and historical experience. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily intangible asset amortization expense and expenses related legal settlements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily foreign currency losses $( ) million , $( ) million , and $( ) million , , and , and realized gains and losses marketable securities sales $ million , $( ) million , and $ million , , and . Income Taxes Income tax expense includes . (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Except required under . tax laws, not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . our intent changes these funds are needed for our . operations, would required accrue pay . taxes some all these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would adversely affected. Undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside the were $ billion December , . Determination the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would incurred such amounts were repatriated not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced valuation allowance the extent believe they will not realized. consider many factors when assessing the likelihood future realization our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations future taxable income and capital gains taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. allocate our valuation allowance current and long-term deferred tax assets pro-rata basis. utilize two-step approach recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step evaluate the tax position for recognition determining the weight available evidence indicates more likely than not that the position will sustained audit, including resolution related appeals litigation processes. The second step measure the tax benefit the largest amount which more than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. include interest and penalties related our tax contingencies income tax expense. Fair Value Financial Instruments Fair value defined the price that would received sell asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. increase the comparability fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs valuation methodologies used measure fair value: Level —Valuations based quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities active markets. Level —Valuations based observable inputs other than quoted prices included Level , such quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities active markets, quoted prices for identical similar assets and liabilities markets that are not active, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data. Level —Valuations based unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. For our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, measure the fair value money market funds and equity securities based quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based recent trades securities inactive markets based quoted market prices similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities categorized Level assets December , , December , . part entering into commercial agreements, often obtain equity warrant assets giving the right acquire stock primarily private companies. record these assets “Other assets” the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Equity warrant assets are classified Level assets, and the balances and related activity for our equity warrant assets were not significant for the periods ended December , , , and . Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. provide Fulfillment Amazon services connection with certain our sellers’ programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership their inventory, regardless whether fulfillment provided the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included our inventories. also purchase electronic device components from variety suppliers and use several contract manufacturers provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course business, order manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers. portion our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based forecasted customer demand. reduce these commitments, may incur additional costs. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Included “Accounts receivable, net and other” our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related vendor and customer receivables. December , and , vendor receivables, net, were $ billion and $ billion , and customer receivables, net, were $ billion and $ billion . estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts and historical experience losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when probable that all contractual payments due will not collected accordance with the terms the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Additions the allowance were $ million , $ million , and $ million , and deductions the allowance were $ million , $ million , and $ million December , , , and . Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software . Costs related design maintenance internal-use software and website development are expensed incurred. For the years ended , , and , capitalized $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation), and $ million (including $ million stock-based compensation) costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization previously capitalized amounts was $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment are stated cost less accumulated depreciation. Property includes buildings and land that own, along with property have acquired under build- -suit, financing, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation recorded straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, two years for assets such internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense classified within the corresponding operating expense categories our consolidated statements operations. Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations categorize leases their inception either operating capital leases. certain our lease agreements, may receive rent holidays and other incentives. recognize lease costs straight-line basis without regard deferred payment terms, such rent holidays, that defer the commencement date required payments. Additionally, incentives receive are treated reduction our costs over the term the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized cost and amortized over the lesser their expected useful life the non-cancellable term the lease. establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build- -suit lease arrangements the extent are involved the construction structural improvements take construction risk prior commencement lease. Upon occupancy facilities under build- -suit leases, assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. continue the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for finance leases. establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs retire long-lived assets the termination expiration lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated retirement costs. Goodwill evaluate goodwill for impairment annually more frequently when event occurs circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. test goodwill for impairment first comparing the book value net assets the fair value the reporting units. the fair value determined less than the book value qualitative factors indicate that more likely than not that goodwill impaired, second step performed compute the amount impairment the difference between the estimated fair value goodwill and the carrying value. estimate the fair value the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts future cash flows are based our best estimate future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. conduct our annual impairment test October each year, and have determined there impairment for any the periods presented. There were triggering events identified from the date our assessment through December , that would require update our annual impairment test. See “Note —Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets.” Other Assets Included “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related acquired intangible assets, net amortization; acquired digital media content, net amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority which are attributable collateralization bank guarantees and debt related our international operations; intellectual property rights, net amortization; and equity warrant assets. Content Costs obtain video and music content made available Prime members through licensing agreements that have wide range licensing provisions and generally have terms from one five years with fixed payment schedules. When the license fee for specific movie, television, music title determinable reasonably estimable and available for streaming, recognize asset representing the fee per title and corresponding liability for the amounts owed. relieve the liability payments are made and amortize the asset cost sales straight-line basis over each title’ contractual window availability, which typically ranges from six months five years. are unable reasonably estimate the cost per title, asset liability recorded and licensing costs are expensed incurred. also develop original content. The production costs internally developed content are capitalized only persuasive evidence exists that the production will generate revenue. Because have limited history support the economic benefits our content, have generally expensed such costs incurred. develop more experience otherwise obtain the necessary evidence that future revenue will earned through licensing Prime membership activity, portion future production costs may capitalized. Investments generally invest our excess cash investment grade short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included “Cash and cash equivalents,” “Marketable securities” the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified available-for-sale, and reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. The total our investments equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities, and goodwill, included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. Our share the earnings losses reported equity-method investees, amortization the related intangible assets, and related gains losses, any, are classified “Equity - method investment activity, net tax” our consolidated statements operations. Our share the net income loss our equity - method investees includes operating and non-operating gains and charges, which can have significant impact our reported equity-method investment activity and the carrying value those investments. the event that net losses the investee reduce our equity-method investment carrying amount zero, additional net losses may recorded other investments the investee, not accounted for under the equity method, are -risk even have not committed provide financial support the investee. regularly evaluate these investments, which are not carried fair value, for other-than-temporary impairment. also consider whether our equity-method investments generate sufficient cash flows from their operating financing activities meet their obligations and repay their liabilities when they come due. record purchases, including incremental purchases, shares equity-method investees cost. Reductions our ownership percentage investee, including through dilution, are generally valued fair value, with the difference between fair value and our recorded cost reflected gain loss our equity-method investment activity. the event longer have the ability exercise significant influence over equity-method investee, would discontinue accounting for the investment under the equity method. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which not have the ability exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method accounting and classified “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified available-for-sale and are included “Marketable securities” our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net tax, included “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration the unrealized loss well our ability and intent hold the investment until forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, assess whether have plans sell the security more likely than not will required sell any investment before recovery its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions offers investee securities; credit quality debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value our investments; duration and severity the decline value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets may not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset’ carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Assets held for sale were not significant December , . Accrued Expenses and Other Included “Accrued expenses and other” our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. December , and our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $ billion and $ billion . reduce the liability for gift card when redeemed customer. gift card not redeemed, recognize revenue when expires when the likelihood its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance performing our service obligations and recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates prepayments Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. Foreign Currency have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, China, Italy, Spain, Brazil, India, Mexico, Australia, and the Netherlands . Net sales generated from these websites, well most the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated local functional currencies. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites generally the same the local currency. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included “Accumulated other comprehensive loss,” separate component stockholders’ equity, and the “Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents,” our consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included “Other income (expense), net” our consolidated statements operations. connection with the settlement and remeasurement intercompany balances, recorded losses $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . Recent Accounting Pronouncements May , the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures enable users financial statements understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The guidance effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December , , with early adoption prohibited. are currently evaluating the impact this ASU will have our consolidated financial statements. Note —CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES December , and , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted cash, . and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded fair value. The following table summarizes, major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured fair value recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy ( millions): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , Level securities: Money market funds , — — , Equity securities — Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities — — . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities ( ) Asset-backed securities — — Other fixed income securities — — $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Total Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , Level securities: Money market funds , — — , Equity securities — Level securities: Foreign government and agency securities ( ) . government and agency securities , ( ) , Corporate debt securities ( ) Asset-backed securities — — Other fixed income securities — — $ , $ $ ( ) $ , Less: Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ( ) ( ) Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ , ___________________ ( ) are required pledge otherwise restrict portion our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities collateral for standby and trade letters credit, guarantees, debt, real estate leases, and amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions. classify cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with use restrictions less than twelve months “Accounts receivable, net and other” and twelve months longer non-current “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets. See “Note —Commitments and Contingencies.” The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities ( millions): Year Ended December , Realized gains $ $ $ Realized losses The following table summarizes the contractual maturities our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( millions): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through five years Due after five years through ten years Due after ten years Total $ , $ , Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions. Note —PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment, cost, consisted the following ( millions): December , Gross property and equipment ( ): Land and buildings $ , $ , Equipment and internal-use software ( ) , , Other corporate assets Construction progress , Gross property and equipment , , Total accumulated depreciation ( ) , , Total property and equipment, net $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets. ( ) Includes internal-use software $ billion and $ billion December , and . Depreciation expense property and equipment was $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion , which includes amortization property and equipment acquired under capital leases $ billion , $ million , and $ million for , , and . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ billion and $ billion December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ billion and $ billion December , and . capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for build- -suit lease agreements where are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build- -suit lease arrangements where have taken occupancy, which not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, determined that continue the deemed owner these buildings. This principally due our significant investment tenant improvements. result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter their useful lives the related leases’ terms. Additionally, certain build- -suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next months recorded “Accrued expenses and other.” Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $ billion and $ million December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $ million and $ million December , and . Cash paid for interest capital and finance leases was $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . Note —ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisition Activity September , , acquired Twitch Interactive, Inc. (“Twitch”) for approximately $ million cash, adjusted for the assumption options and other items. During , acquired certain other companies for aggregate purchase price $ million . acquired Twitch because its user community and the live streaming experience provides. The primary reasons for our other acquisitions were acquire technologies and know-how enable Amazon serve customers more effectively. Acquisition-related costs were expensed incurred and not significant. The aggregate purchase price these acquisitions was allocated follows ( millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net cash acquired $ Stock options assumed Indemnification holdback $ Allocation Goodwill $ Intangible assets ( ): Marketing-related Contract-based Technology-based Customer-related Property and equipment Deferred tax assets Other assets acquired Deferred tax liabilities ( ) Other liabilities assumed ( ) $ ___________________ ( ) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives between one and five years, with weighted-average amortization period five years. The fair value assumed stock options $ million , estimated using the Black-Scholes model, will expensed over the remaining service period. determined the estimated fair value identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily using the income approach. These assets are included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized operating expenses straight-line accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Subsequent September , , made minor measurement period adjustments the preliminary purchase price allocation that impacted goodwill, customer-related intangible assets, property and equipment, and deferred taxes and are reflected the table above. have not retrospectively adjusted our previously reported consolidated financial statements. Pro Forma Financial Information – Acquisition Activity (unaudited) The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting their respective acquisition dates. The aggregate net sales and operating loss the companies acquired was $ million and $ million for the year ended December , . The following pro forma financial information presents our results the current year acquisitions had occurred the beginning ( millions): Year Ended December , Net sales $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ Acquisition Activity , acquired several companies cash transactions for aggregate purchase price $ million , resulting goodwill $ million and acquired intangible assets $ million . The primary reasons for these acquisitions were expand our customer base and sales channels and obtain certain technologies used product development. determined the estimated fair value identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized operating expenses straight-line accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Acquisition-related costs were expensed incurred and were not significant. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effects these acquisitions, individually and the aggregate, were not material our consolidated results operations. Acquisition Activity May , acquired Kiva Systems, Inc. (“Kiva”) for purchase price $ million . The primary reason for this acquisition was improve fulfillment center productivity. Acquisition-related costs were expensed incurred and were not significant. The aggregate purchase price this acquisition was allocated follows ( millions): Purchase Price Cash paid, net cash acquired $ Stock options assumed $ Allocation Goodwill $ Intangible assets ( ): Marketing-related Contract-based Technology-based Customer-related Property and equipment Deferred tax assets Other assets acquired Deferred tax liabilities ( ) Other liabilities assumed ( ) $ ___________________ ( ) Acquired intangible assets have estimated useful lives between four and years, with weighted-average amortization period five years. The fair value assumed stock options was estimated using the Black-Scholes model. determined the estimated fair value identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized operating expenses straight-line accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Pro forma results operations have not been presented because the effect this acquisition was not material our consolidated results operations. Goodwill The goodwill the acquired companies generally not deductible for tax purposes and primarily related expected improvements sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers and fulfillment center productivity, together with certain intangible assets that not qualify for separate recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity and segment ( millions): North America International Consolidated Goodwill - January , $ , $ $ , New acquisitions Other adjustments ( ) ( ) — Goodwill - December , , , New acquisitions ( ) Other adjustments ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Goodwill - December , $ , $ $ , ___________________ ( ) Primarily includes changes foreign exchange rates. ( ) Primarily includes the goodwill Twitch. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within “Other assets” our consolidated balance sheets, consist the following ( millions): December , Weighted Average Life Remaining Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net Acquired Intangibles, Gross ( ) Accumulated Amortization ( ) Acquired Intangibles, Net Marketing-related $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Contract-based ( ) ( ) Technology- and content-based ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Acquired intangibles ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ ___________________ ( ) Excludes the original cost and accumulated amortization fully-amortized intangibles. ( ) Intangible assets have estimated useful lives between one and years. Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $ million , $ million , and $ million , , and . Expected future amortization expense acquired intangible assets December , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , $ Thereafter $ Note —EQUITY-METHOD INVESTMENTS LivingSocial’ summarized condensed financial information, provided LivingSocial, follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Statement Operations: Revenue $ $ $ Gross profit Operating expenses Operating loss from continuing operations ( ) ( ) ( ) Net loss from continuing operations ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) from discontinued operations, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ___________________ ( ) January , LivingSocial completed the sale its Korean operations for approximately $ million and, the first quarter , recognized gain disposal $ million , net tax. The statement operations information above has been recast present the Korean operations, and certain other operations, discontinued operations. December , Balance Sheet: Current assets $ $ Non-current assets Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Redeemable stock Balance sheet financial information December , included $ million assets and $ million liabilities that LivingSocial classified held for sale for its Korean operations. December , , our total investment LivingSocial approximately % voting stock and has book value $ million . Note —LONG-TERM DEBT December and November , issued $ billion and $ billion unsecured senior notes described the table below (collectively, the “Notes”). December , and , the unamortized discount the Notes was $ million and $ million . also have other long-term debt with carrying amount, including the current portion, $ million and $ million December , and . The face value our total long-term debt obligations follows ( millions): December , % Notes due November , ( ) $ $ % Notes due November , ( ) , , % Notes due November , ( ) , , % Notes due December , ( ) , — % Notes due December , ( ) , — % Notes due December , ( ) , — % Notes due December , ( ) , — % Notes due December , ( ) , — Other long-term debt Total debt , , Less current portion long-term debt ( , ) ( ) Face value long-term debt $ , $ , _____________________________ ( ) Issued November , effective interest rates the , , and Notes were % , % , and % . ( ) Issued December , effective interest rates the , , , , and Notes were % , % , % , % , and % . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears June and December . Interest the Notes issued payable semi-annually arrears May and November . may redeem the Notes any time whole, from time time, part specified redemption prices. are not subject any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the Notes are used for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value the Notes was approximately $ billion and $ billion December , and , which based quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt those dates. The other debt, including the current portion, had weighted average interest rate % December , and . used the net proceeds from the issuance this debt primarily fund certain international operations. The estimated fair value the other long-term debt, which based Level inputs, approximated its carrying value December , and . December , , future principal payments for our total debt were follows ( millions): Year Ended December , $ , , , Thereafter , $ , September , , entered into unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) with syndicate lenders that provides with borrowing capacity $ billion . The Credit Agreement has term two years , but may extended for three additional one-year terms approved the lenders . The initial interest rate applicable outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement the London interbank offered rate (“ LIBOR ”) plus % , under our current credit ratings. our credit ratings are downgraded this rate could increase much LIBOR plus % . There were borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement December , . Note —OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( millions): December , Long-term capital lease obligations $ , $ , Long-term finance lease obligations , Construction liabilities Tax contingencies Long-term deferred tax liabilities , Other , Total other long-term liabilities $ , $ , Capital and Finance Leases Certain our equipment, primarily related technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( millions): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ , continue the deemed owner after occupancy certain facilities that were constructed build- -suit lease arrangements and previously reflected “Construction liabilities.” such, these arrangements are accounted for finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are follows ( millions): December , Gross finance lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion finance lease obligations ( ) Total long-term finance lease obligations $ , Construction Liabilities capitalize construction progress and record corresponding long-term liability for build- -suit lease agreements where are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax Contingencies have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive accrued interest and penalties, for . and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See “Note —Income Taxes” for discussion tax contingencies. Note —COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, December , ( millions): Year Ended December , Thereafter Total Operating and capital commitments: Debt principal and interest $ , $ $ , $ $ , $ , $ , Capital leases, including interest , , , , Finance lease obligations, including interest , , Operating leases , , Unconditional purchase obligations ( ) , Other commitments ( ) ( ) , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related long-term agreements acquire and license digital content that are not reflected the consolidated balance sheets. For those agreements with variable terms, not estimate the total obligation beyond any minimum quantities and pricing the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely the option the content provider are included the extent such commitments are fixed minimum amount specified. ( ) Includes the estimated timing and amounts payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build- -suit lease arrangements that have not been placed service and media content liabilities associated with long-term media content assets with initial terms greater than one year. ( ) Excludes $ million tax contingencies for which cannot make reasonably reliable estimate the amount and period payment, any. Pledged Assets December , and , have pledged otherwise restricted $ million and $ million our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment collateral for standby and trade letters credit, guarantees, debt relating certain international operations, real estate leases, and amounts due third-party sellers certain jurisdictions. Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our purchases. generally not have long-term contracts arrangements with our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Legal Proceedings The Company involved from time time claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following: November , Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against Amazon com International Sales, Inc., Amazon Sarl, Amazon GmbH, Amazon com GmbH, and Amazon Logistik the Commercial Court Vienna, Austria and the District Court Munich, Germany seeking collect tariff blank digital media sold our -based retail websites customers located Austria. July , the German court stayed the German case pending final decision the Austrian case. July , the Austrian court ruled favor Austro-Mechana and ordered report all sales products which the tariff potentially applies for determination damages. contested Austro-Mechana’ claim and September commenced appeal the Commercial Court Vienna. lost this appeal and March commenced appeal the Supreme Court Austria. October , the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case the European Court Justice (ECJ). July , the European Court Justice ruled that law does not preclude application the tariff where certain conditions are met and directed the case back the Austrian Supreme Court for further proceedings. October , the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case back the Commercial Court Vienna for further fact finding determine whether the tariff blank digital media meets the conditions set the ECJ. December , German copyright collection society, Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte (ZPU), filed complaint against Amazon Sarl, Amazon Media Sarl, Amazon Services Europe Sarl, Amazon Payments Europe SCA, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and Amazon Eurasia Holdings Sarl the District Court Luxembourg seeking collect tariff blank digital media sold the Amazon retail website customers located Germany. January , Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed complaint against Amazon Sarl the Court First Instance Brussels, Belgium, seeking collect tariff blank digital media sold the Amazon retail website customers located Belgium. November , the Belgian court ruled favor AUVIBEL and ordered report all sales products which the tariff potentially applies for determination damages. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. May , Big Baboon, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon Payments, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Central District California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes patents owned Big Baboon, Inc. purporting cover “Integrated Business- -Business Web Commerce And Business Automation System” ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. February , the Court entered order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome the Patent and Trademark Office’ -examination the patent. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. April , Walker Digital LLC filed several complaints against Amazon com, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaints allege that infringe several the plaintiff’ . patents , among other things, providing “cross benefits” customers through our promotions ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ), using customer’ identified original product offer substitute product ( . Patent . , , ), using our product recommendations and personalization features offer complementary products together ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ), enabling customers subscribe delivery schedule for products they routinely use reduced prices ( . Patent . , , ), and offering personalized advertising based customers’ preferences identified using data pattern ( . Patent . , , ). Another complaint, filed the same court October , alleges that infringe plaintiff’ . Patent . , , offering personalized advertising based customer preferences that associate data with resource locators. Another complaint, filed the same court February , alleges that infringe plaintiff’ . Patent . , , using product information received from customers identify and offer substitute products using manufacturer database. January , the plaintiff filed another complaint the same court alleging that infringe . Patent . , , allowing customers make local payments for products ordered online. All the complaints seek monetary damages, interest, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys’ fees. March , the complaints asserting . Patent Nos. , , and , , were voluntarily dismissed with prejudice. April , the case asserting . Patent . , , was stayed pending final resolution the reexamination that patent. June , the court granted defendants’ motions dismiss the complaints asserting . Patent Nos. , , , , , , and , , for lack standing. July , filed motions seeking entry final judgment dismissing those claims with prejudice and for attorneys’ fees, and plaintiff filed notices appeal from the June order granting the motions dismiss. October , the court ruled that its dismissals are with prejudice, and Walker has appealed those rulings. March , the court stayed the case asserting . Patent Nos. , , and , , pending the appeal the cases asserting . Patent Nos. , , , , , , and , , . September , the court dismissed the matter asserting . Patent . , , with prejudice. January , the court dismissed with prejudice the complaint asserting . Patent . , , , and the United States Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the dismissal the complaints asserting . Patent Nos. , , , , , , and , , . dispute the remaining allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. March , OIP Technologies, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleged, among other things, that certain aspects our pricing methods infringed . Patent . , , , entitled “Method And Apparatus For Automatic Pricing Electronic Commerce.” The complaint sought three times unspecified amount damages, attorneys’ fees, and interest. September , the court invalidated the plaintiff’ patent and dismissed the case with prejudice. September , OIP appealed the judgment the district court the United States Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which, November , stayed all proceedings pending its decision separate case that raises related question law and, June , continued the stay pending decision the United States Supreme Court. July , the court appeals lifted the stay. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. June , Hand Held Products, Inc., subsidiary Honeywell, filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc., AMZN Mobile, LLC, AmazonFresh, LLC, com, Inc., Innovations, LLC, and Quidsi, Inc. the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use mobile barcode reader applications, including Amazon Mobile, Amazon Price Check, Flow, and AmazonFresh, infringes . Patent . , , , entitled “Decoding Real Time Video Imaging.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, interest, and injunction. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. July , Norman Blagman filed purported class-action complaint against Amazon com, Inc. for copyright infringement the United States District Court for the Southern District New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon com, Inc. sells digital music our Amazon MP3 Store obtained from defendant Orchard Enterprises and other unnamed “digital music aggregators” without obtaining mechanical licenses for the compositions embodied that music. The complaint seeks certification class action, statutory damages, attorneys’ fees, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. August , Australian quasi-government entity named Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the sale “products which are operable according the Institute Electrical and Electronics Engineers (“IEEE”) 11a, , , and draft standards” infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Wireless LAN.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, and injunctive relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. November , Lexington Luminance LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon Digital Services, Inc. the United States District Court for the District Massachusetts. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain light-emitting diodes certain Kindle devices infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Semiconductor Light-Emitting Device And Method For Manufacturing Same.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages and injunction , the absence injunction, compulsory ongoing royalty. March , the Court invalidated the plaintiff’ patent and dismissed the case with prejudice, and the plaintiff appealed the judgment the United States Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. May , Adaptix, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe . Patent Nos. , , and , , , both entitled “OFDMA With Adaptive Subcarrier-Cluster Configuration And Selective Loading.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. March , the case was transferred the United States District Court for the Northern District California. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. July , Telebuyer, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc., Amazon Web Services, LLC, and VADATA, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Virginia. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain features used our retail website—including high resolution video and still images, user-indicated areas interest, targeted follow- communications, vendor proposals, -line chat, Gold Box and Lightning Deals, and vendor ratings—infringe seven . patents: Nos. , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and , , , all entitled “Commercial Product Routing System With Video Vending Capability,” and , , , entitled “Commercial Product Routing System With Mobile Wireless And Video Vending Capability.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, interest, and injunctive relief. September , the case was transferred the United States District Court for the Western District Washington. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. August , Cellular Communications Equipment, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe . Patent Nos.: , , , entitled “Method For Communication Neighbor Cell Information”; , , , entitled “Method For Intersystem Connection Handover”; , , , entitled “Method For Multicode Transmission Subscriber Station”; and , , entitled “Apparatus, System, And Method For Designating Buffer Status Reporting Format Based Detected Pre-Selected Buffer Conditions.” March , the plaintiff filed amended complaint that alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Apparatus, System, And Method For Designating Buffer Status Reporting Format Based Detected Pre-Selected Buffer Conditions.” The amended complaint seeks unspecified amount damages and interest. January , the court dismissed with prejudice the claim infringement . Patent . , , . dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. Beginning August , number complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon com, Inc. and several its subsidiaries failed compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law. August , Busk . Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon com, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the District Nevada, and Vance . Amazon com, Inc., Zappos com Inc., another affiliate Amazon com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky. September , Allison . Amazon com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, and Johnson . Amazon com, Inc. and affiliate Amazon com, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Western District Kentucky. October , Davis . Amazon com, Inc., affiliate Amazon com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed the United States District Court for the Middle District Tennessee. The plaintiffs variously purport represent nationwide class certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach contract and unjust enrichment claims. The complaints seek unspecified amount damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. have been named several other similar cases. December , the Supreme Court ruled Busk that time spent waiting for and undergoing security screening not compensable working time under the federal wage and hour statute. dispute any remaining allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. September , Personalized Media Communications, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, LLC the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use certain Kindle devices, Kindle apps and Amazon com, Inc.’ website purchase and receive electronic media infringes nine . Patents: Nos. , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and , , , all entitled “Signal Processing Apparatus And Methods.” The complaint also alleges, among other things, that CloudFront, , and EC2 web services infringe three those patents, Nos. , , , , , , and , , . The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, interest, and injunctive relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. October , Mobile Telecommunications Technologies, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our network operation centers and our mobile devices, such Kindle Fire models based the Android operating system that provide XMPP-compliant messaging services and applications, infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Method And Device For Processing Undelivered Data Messages Two-Way Wireless Communications System.” The complaint also alleges that Amazon’ mobile devices infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Nationwide Communication System,” and that Amazon com, Inc. infringes . Patent . , , , entitled “Method And Apparatus For Giving Notification Express Mail Delivery,” providing tracking and notification services customers who purchase products directly from Amazon com, Inc. The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. October , Tuxis Technologies, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for District Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that “the Amazon com website” with “recommendation features” infringes . Patent . , , , entitled “Methods And Apparatus For Intelligent Selection Goods And Services Telephonic And Electronic Commerce.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. November , Memory Integrity, LLC filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Reducing Probe Traffic Multiprocessor Systems.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, costs, expenses, and interest. December , the case was stayed pending resolution review petitions filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. November , Vantage Point Technology, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Kindle devices with Cortex - core processor and OMAP chipset, Kindle device tablets with Cortex - core processor and OMAP chipset, and Kindle devices with Cortex - core processor and Freescale MX50 family chipset infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Method And Apparatus For Translating Virtual Addresses Data Processing System Having Multiple Instruction Pipelines And Separate TLB’ For Each Pipeline.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. December , Appistry, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Missouri. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon’ Elastic Compute Cloud infringes . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “System And Method For Territory-Based Processing Information,” and , , , entitled “System And Method For Processing Information Via Networked Computers Including Request Handlers, Process Handlers, And Task Handlers.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified amount monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. December , ContentGuard Holdings, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain digital rights management software used various Kindle Fire software applications, including the Kindle Reader and Amazon Instant Video, infringe seven . Patents: Nos. , , , entitled “Content Rendering Repository”; , , , entitled “System For Controlling The Distribution And Use Digital Works”; , , , entitled “Content Rendering Apparatus”; , , , entitled “System And Method For Rendering Digital Content Accordance With Usage Rights Information”; , , , entitled “System And Method For Distributing Digital Content Accordance With Usage Rights Information”; , , , entitled “Digital Works Having Usage Rights And Method For Creating The Same”; and , , , entitled “Method For Providing Digital Asset For Distribution.” January , ContentGuard filed amended complaint that, among other things, added HTC Corporation and HTC America defendants. The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. March , Kaavo, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for the District Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Web Services’ Elastic Beanstalk and CloudFormation infringe . Patent . , , , entitled “Cloud Computing Lifecycle Management For -Tier Applications.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unspecified amount monetary damages, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. April , Spansion LLC filed complaints for patent infringement against Amazon com, Inc. both the United States District Court for the Northern District California and the United States International Trade Commission. The complaints allege, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe . Patent Nos. , , , entitled “System For Erasing Memory Cell,” and , , , entitled “Method And System Minimize Page Programming Time For Flash Memory Devices.” The district court complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, interest, and injunctive relief. The International Trade Commission complaint seeks exclusion order preventing the importation certain Kindle devices into the United States, well cease-and-desist order barring sale certain Kindle devices after importation. June , the district court case was stayed pending resolution the International Trade Commission action. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously these matters. June , SimpleAir, Inc. filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc. the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Device Messaging and Simple Notification Service infringe Patent Nos. , , , , , , , , , , , , and , , , all which are entitled “System and Method for Transmission Data.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, pre-judgment interest, costs, attorneys’ fees, enhanced damages, and injunctive relief. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. December , Smartflash LLC and Smartflash Technologies Limited filed complaint against Amazon com, Inc., Amazon com, LLC, AMZN Mobile, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Audible, Inc. for patent infringement the United States District Court for Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, Audible Audiobooks, the Amazon Mobile Network, certain Kindle and Fire devices, Kindle -bookstore, Amazon’ proprietary Android operating system, and the servers involved operating Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, the Fire app, Audible Audiobooks, Cloud Drive, Cloud Player, Amazon Web Services, and Amazon Mobile Network infringe seven related . Patents: Nos. , , ; , , ; , , ; , , ; , , ; , , ; and , , , all entitled “Data Storage and Access Systems.” The complaint seeks unspecified amount damages, injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and interest. dispute the allegations wrongdoing and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. The outcomes our legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, subject significant uncertainties, and could material our operating results and cash flows for particular period. addition, for some matters for which loss probable reasonably possible, estimate the amount loss range loss not possible and may unable estimate the possible loss range losses that could potentially result from the application non-monetary remedies. See also “Note —Income Taxes.” Note —STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Preferred Stock have authorized million shares $ par value preferred stock. preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled million , million , and million , December , , , and . These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards estimate will forfeited. Stock Repurchase Activity January , our Board Directors authorized the Company repurchase $ billion our common stock with fixed expiration. have $ million remaining under the $ billion repurchase program. Stock Award Plans Employees vest restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years . Stock Award Activity Stock options outstanding, which were primarily obtained through acquisitions, totaled million, million and million, December , , , and . The after-tax compensation expense for stock options was not material for , , and , well the total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding, the amount cash received from the exercise stock options, and the related tax benefits. The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity ( millions): Number Units Weighted Average Grant-Date Fair Value Outstanding January , $ Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , Units granted Units vested ( ) Units forfeited ( ) Outstanding December , $ Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units December , , follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Thereafter Total Scheduled vesting—restricted stock units December , , there was $ billion net unrecognized compensation cost related unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation recognized accelerated basis with approximately half the compensation expected expensed the next twelve months, and has weighted-average recognition period years. During and , the fair value restricted stock units that vested was $ billion and $ billion . matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan, granted million and million shares common stock and . Shares granted matching contributions under our ( ) plan are included outstanding common stock when issued, and recorded stock-based compensation expense. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance December , , common stock available for future issuance employees million shares. Note —ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Changes the composition accumulated other comprehensive loss for , , and are follows ( millions): Foreign currency translation adjustments Unrealized gains available-for-sale securities Total Balances January , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Other comprehensive income Balances December , ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) Balances December , ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income (loss) ( ) ( ) ( ) Balances December , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Amounts included accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded net their related income tax effects. Note —INCOME TAXES , , and , recorded net tax provisions $ million , $ million , and $ million . have tax benefits relating excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized reduce our . taxable income. December , . legislation was enacted providing one year extension accelerated depreciation deductions qualifying property and the . federal research and development credit through . such, cash taxes paid, net refunds, were $ million , $ million , and $ million for , , and . The components the provision for income taxes, net are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Current taxes: . Federal $ $ $ . State International Current taxes Deferred taxes: . Federal ( ) ( ) ( ) . State ( ) ( ) ( ) International ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes, net $ $ $ . and international components income before income taxes are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , . $ $ $ International ( ) ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before income taxes $ ( ) $ $ The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Income taxes computed the federal statutory rate $ ( ) $ $ Effect : Impact foreign tax differential ( ) State taxes, net federal benefits Tax credits ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible compensation Domestic production activities deduction ( ) ( ) — Other, net Total $ $ $ Our provision for income taxes was higher than primarily due the increased losses certain foreign subsidiaries for which may not realize tax benefit and audit-related developments, partially offset the favorable impact earnings lower tax rate jurisdictions. Losses for which may not realize related tax benefit reduce our pre-tax income without corresponding reduction our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which may not realize related tax benefit. Income earned lower tax jurisdictions primarily related our European operations, which are headquartered Luxembourg. , our provision for income taxes was lower than primarily due decline the proportion our losses for which may not realize related tax benefit, the favorable impact earnings lower tax rate jurisdictions, and the retroactive extension the . federal research and development credit . , recognized tax benefits for greater proportion losses for which may not realize related tax benefit, primarily due losses certain foreign subsidiaries, compared . The favorable impact earnings lower tax rate jurisdictions was primarily related our European operations. Except required under . tax laws, not provide for . taxes our undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since intend invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside the . our intent changes these funds are needed for our . operations, would required accrue pay . taxes some all these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would adversely affected. Undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside the were $ billion December , . Determination the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would incurred such amounts were repatriated not practicable. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are follows ( millions): December , ( ) Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses . - Federal States ( ) $ $ Net operating losses foreign ( ) Accrued liabilities, reserves, & other expenses Stock-based compensation Deferred revenue Assets held for investment Other items Tax credits ( ) Total gross deferred tax assets , , Less valuation allowance ( ) ( ) ( ) Deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance , , Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation & amortization ( , ) ( , ) Acquisition related intangible assets ( ) ( ) Other items ( ) ( ) Net deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance $ $ ___________________ ( ) Deferred tax assets related net operating losses and tax credits are presented net tax contingencies. ( ) Excluding $ million and $ million deferred tax assets December , and , related net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will recorded stockholders’ equity. ( ) Excluding $ million and $ million deferred tax assets December , and , related net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will recorded stockholders’ equity. ( ) Excluding $ million and $ million deferred tax assets December , and , related tax credits that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will recorded stockholders’ equity. ( ) Relates primarily deferred tax assets that would only realizable upon the generation net income certain foreign taxing jurisdictions and future capital gains. December , , our federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ billion , $ billion , and $ billion . The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject limitations under Section the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state tax law. not utilized, portion the federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin expire , , and , respectively. December , , our tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $ million . not utilized, portion the tax credit carryforwards will begin expire . The Company’ consolidated balance sheets reflect deferred tax assets related net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards excluding amounts resulting from excess stock-based compensation. Amounts related excess stock-based compensation are accounted for increase additional paid- capital and when realized through reduction income taxes payable. Tax Contingencies are subject income taxes the . (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination uncertain. establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based estimates whether, and the extent which, additional taxes will due. These reserves are established when believe that certain positions might challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. adjust these reserves light changing facts and circumstances, such the outcome tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact reserve provisions and changes reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation our tax contingencies follows ( millions): December , Gross tax contingencies – January $ $ $ Gross increases tax positions prior periods Gross decreases tax positions prior periods ( ) ( ) ( ) Gross increases current period tax positions Audit settlements paid ( ) ( ) ( ) Lapse statute limitations ( ) — ( ) Gross tax contingencies – December ( ) $ $ $ ___________________ ( ) December , , had $ million tax contingencies, which $ million , fully recognized, would decrease our effective tax rate. December , and , had accrued interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, related tax contingencies $ million and $ million . Interest and penalties, net federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December , , , and was $ million , $ million , and $ million . are under examination, may subject examination, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the calendar year and thereafter. These examinations may lead ordinary course adjustments proposed adjustments our taxes our net operating losses with respect years under examination well subsequent periods. previously disclosed, have received Notices Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for transactions undertaken the and calendar years relating transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS seeking increase our . taxable income amount that would result additional federal tax approximately $ billion , subject interest. date, have not resolved this matter administratively and are currently contesting . Tax Court. continue disagree with these IRS positions and intend defend ourselves vigorously this matter. addition the risk additional tax for and transactions, this litigation adversely determined the IRS were seek transfer pricing adjustments similar nature for transactions subsequent years, Amazon could subject significant additional tax liabilities. Certain our subsidiaries are under examination investigation may subject examination investigation the French Tax Administration (“FTA”) for calendar year thereafter. These examinations may lead ordinary course adjustments proposed adjustments our taxes. While have not yet received final assessment from the FTA, September , received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years through relating the allocation income between foreign jurisdictions. The notices propose additional French tax approximately $ million , including interest and penalties through the date the assessment. disagree with the proposed assessment and intend contest vigorously. plan pursue all available administrative remedies the FTA, and are not able resolve this matter with the FTA, plan pursue judicial remedies. addition, October , the European Commission opened formal investigation examine whether decisions the tax authorities Luxembourg with regard the corporate income tax paid certain our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules state aid. this matter adversely resolved, Luxembourg may required assess, and may required pay, additional amounts with respect current and prior periods and our taxes the future could increase. are also subject taxation various states and other foreign jurisdictions including Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. are under, may subject , audit examination and additional assessments respect these particular jurisdictions for and thereafter. expect the total amount tax contingencies will grow . addition, changes state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing the resolution income tax examinations highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, any, upon resolution the issues raised the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. reasonably possible that within the next months will receive additional assessments various tax authorities possibly reach resolution income tax examinations one more jurisdictions. These assessments settlements may may not result changes our contingencies related positions tax filings years through . The actual amount any change could vary significantly depending the ultimate timing and nature any settlements. cannot currently provide estimate the range possible outcomes. Note —SEGMENT INFORMATION have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. present our segment information along the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. expect change our reportable segments report North America, International, and AWS, beginning with the first quarter . allocate segment results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Marketing,” “Technology and content,” and “General and administrative,” but exclude from our allocations the portions these expense lines attributable stock-based compensation. not allocate the line item “Other operating expense (income), net” our segment operating results. Our “Technology and content” costs included our segments are primarily based the geographic location where the costs are incurred, the majority these costs are incurred the . and included our North America segment. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such www amazon com and www amazon and include amounts earned from AWS. This segment includes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused websites. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based websites (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from our . and Canadian websites. Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income (loss) follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America Net sales $ , $ , $ , Segment operating expenses ( ) , , , Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , International Net sales $ , $ , $ , Segment operating expenses ( ) , , , Segment operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ Consolidated Net sales $ , $ , $ , Segment operating expenses ( ) , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other operating income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Income from operations Total non-operating income (expense) ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Equity-method investment activity, net tax ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) ___________________ ( ) Represents operating expenses, excluding stock-based compensation and “Other operating expense (income), net,” which are not allocated segments. have aggregated our products and services into groups similar products and services and provided the supplemental disclosure net sales ( millions) below. evaluate whether additional disclosure appropriate when product service category begins approach significant level net sales. For the periods presented, individual product service represented more than % net sales. Year Ended December , Net Sales: Media $ , $ , $ , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other ( ) , , , $ , $ , $ , ___________________ ( ) Includes sales from non-retail activities, such AWS, advertising services, and our -branded credit card agreements. Net sales generated from these internationally-focused websites are denominated local functional currencies. Revenues are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed foreign countries are follows ( millions): Year Ended December , Germany $ , $ , $ , Japan , , , United Kingdom , , , Total assets, property and equipment, net, and total property and equipment additions, geography, reconciled consolidated amounts are ( millions): December , North America Total assets $ , $ , $ , Property and equipment, net , , , Total property and equipment additions , , , International Total assets $ , $ , $ , Property and equipment, net , , , Total property and equipment additions , , Consolidated Total assets $ , $ , $ , Property and equipment, net , , , Total property and equipment additions , , , Except for the ., property and equipment, net, any single country was less than % consolidated property and equipment, net. Depreciation expense, segment, follows ( millions): Year Ended December , North America $ , $ , $ , International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Note —QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are follows ( millions, except per share data): Year Ended December , ( ) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Income (loss) from operations ( ) ( ) Income (loss) before income taxes ( ) ( ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( ) ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Basic earnings per share ( ) ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted Year Ended December , ( ) Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Income (loss) from operations ( ) Income (loss) before income taxes ( ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes ( ) ( ) Net income (loss) ( ) ( ) Basic earnings per share ( ) ( ) Diluted earnings per share ( ) ( ) Shares used computation earnings per share: Basic Diluted ___________________ ( ) The sum quarterly amounts, including per share amounts, may not equal amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due the effects rounding and changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding for each period. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Securities Exchange Act (the “ Act”), under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act, December , . Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, December , , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the reports that file submit under the Act recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified the SEC’ rules and forms and provide reasonable assurance that such information accumulated and communicated our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, defined Rule 13a- ( ) the Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting December , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework ( ) issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. result this assessment, management concluded that, December , , our internal control over financial reporting was effective providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting and its report included below. Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December , that materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed provide reasonable assurance achieving their objectives specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures our internal control over financial reporting will prevent detect all error and fraud. Any control system, matter how well designed and operated, based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will met. Further, evaluation controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due error fraud will not occur that all control issues and instances fraud, any, within the Company have been detected. Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited Amazon com, Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting December , , based criteria established Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (the COSO criteria). Amazon com, Inc.’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Amazon com, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting December , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , Amazon com, Inc. and our report dated January , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January , ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information None. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part “Business—Executive Officers the Registrant.” Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes the process which security holders may recommend nominees the Board Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Business Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. the extent permissible under NASDAQ rules, intend disclose amendments our Code Business Conduct and Ethics, well waivers the provisions thereof, our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate Governance” www amazon com . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our Annual Meeting Shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Comprehensive Income for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders’ Equity for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, because not required. ( ) Index Exhibits See exhibits listed under the Exhibit Index below. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}