{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Apple Computer, Inc.-Registered Trademark- ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the state California January , . The Company\' principal executive offices are located Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, and its telephone number ( ) - . The Company\' fiscal year ends about the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\' fiscal calendar. The Company designs, manufactures and markets personal computers and related personal computing and communicating solutions for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. Substantially all the Company\' net sales date have been derived from the sale its Apple Macintosh-Registered Trademark- line personal computers and related software and peripherals. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' geographic segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Net Sales," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information hereby incorporated reference. PRINCIPAL HARDWARE PRODUCTS Apple Macintosh personal computers were first introduced , and are characterized their intuitive ease use, innovative industrial designs and applications base, and built- networking, graphics, and multimedia capabilities. The Company offers range personal computing products, including personal computers, related peripherals, software, and networking and connectivity products. All the Company\' Macintosh products employ PowerPC-Registered Trademark- RISC-based microprocessors. Further information regarding the Company\' products may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. POWER MAC- - The Power Mac line desktop personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. With the addition Apple server and networking software, Power Mac systems can used workgroup servers. The Company\' current Power Mac line features two models that come standard with dual PowerPC processors. POWER MAC- - CUBE The Power Mac Cube system, introduced Apple July , delivers the performance Power Mac eight-inch cube. The Cube was designed appeal both professional users and high-end consumer users seeking more power coupled with small design. POWERBOOK-Registered Trademark- The PowerBook family portable computers specifically designed meet the mobile computing needs professionals and advanced consumer users. Current PowerBooks incorporate PowerPC processors, active-matrix displays, and long battery lives. iMAC- - The iMac line desktop computers targeted education and consumer markets. Current iMacs feature innovative industrial design, easy Internet access, and PowerPC processors, making them suitable for wide range education and consumer applications. iBOOK- - Designed specifically for the portable computing needs education and consumer users, current iBook features include active-matrix display, long battery life, and PowerPC processor. PERIPHERAL PRODUCTS The Company sells certain associated Apple-branded computer hardware peripherals, including range high quality precision color displays and AirPort- - wireless networking base stations and add- cards. The Company also sells variety third-party hardware products directly end users through its -line store including computer printers, storage devices, memory, and imaging products such digital camcorders and scanners. PRINCIPAL SOFTWARE PRODUCTS OPERATING SYSTEM SOFTWARE Apple\' operating system software, Mac -Registered Trademark-, provides Macintosh computers with easy, consistent user interface. The current version, Mac , began shipping October . Mac includes numerous advanced features including Sherlock-Registered Trademark- , the Company\' advanced Internet search engine, features for faster and more efficient Internet usage, enhanced system and network security, and auto updating Apple software over the Internet. The Company also develops and distributes extensions the Macintosh system software including utilities, languages, and developer tools. During , the Company plans introduce the first customer release its new client operating system, Mac , which will offer advanced functionality based open-source UNIX-Registered Trademark--based foundation. Mac will incorporate the most fundamental changes both core technology and user interface design made the Company the Mac single upgrade since the original introduction the Macintosh . Mac will feature memory protection, pre-emptive multi-tasking, and symmetric multiprocessing. Mac includes Apple\' new Quartz- - graphics engine (based the Internet- standard Portable Document Format) for enhanced graphics and broad font support, OpenGL for enhanced graphics and gaming, and QuickTime- - for streaming audio and video. addition, Mac features Apple\' new user interface named Aqua- -, which combines superior ease- -use with new functionality such the "Dock," new interface for organizing applications, documents and miniaturized windows. September , , Apple released Mac Public Beta. Mac Public Beta includes certain new updated applications, including Apple\' new Mail client and new versions the QuickTime player and Sherlock, well beta version Microsoft\' Internet Explorer written for Mac . Further information regarding the introduction Mac may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheadings "Product Introductions and Transitions" and "Support from Third-Party Software Developers" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. March , the Company introduced Mac Server, which combines the strength UNIX-Registered Trademark- and simplicity the Macintosh. Mac Server based the Mach microkernel and the BSD-Registered Trademark- operating system. provides performance and stability through full pre-emptive multi-tasking, protected memory, advanced virtual memory, QuickTime Streaming Server software, and NetBoot; Mac server feature allowing network Macs booted and configured from single server. APPLICATION SOFTWARE The Company has two primary digital video authoring editing software titles. Final Cut Pro-Registered Trademark- video authoring software designed meet the demanding needs the professional video editing environment that combines professional-quality video editing, compositing, and special effects one package. Apple introduced iMovie- - , update its easy- -use consumer digital video editing software, July . iMovie makes easy create home and classroom movies and features enhanced user interface, improved audio editing capabilities, enhanced controls for titling and transitions, and added special effects. iMovie preinstalled all FireWire-Registered Trademark- enabled Macintoshes. AppleWorks-Registered Trademark- integrated productivity application that incorporates word processing, spreadsheet, database, drawing, painting, and presentation features single software package. Intended easy- -use product for the Company\' consumer and education customers, AppleWorks makes simple create professional looking documents the classroom and home. FileMaker-Registered Trademark- Corporation, wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes desktop based database management application software for Mac and Windows-based systems. Filemaker\' FileMaker Pro- - database software and related products offers strong relational databases and advanced desktop- -web publishing capabilities. INTERNET SOFTWARE, INTEGRATION, AND SERVICES Apple\' Internet strategy focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\' product lines. addition Sherlock , easy Internet Setup Assistant integral part Mac , the current version the Macintosh operating system. QuickTime- - Player, the Company\' current version its multimedia software for Macintosh and Windows platforms, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet. Since its release June , over million copies QuickTime software have been distributed free Macintosh and Windows users worldwide. QuickTime Pro suite software that allows QuickTime files created and edited and allows user add special effects QuickTime movies. QuickTime Streaming Server software the underlying server technology that powers QuickTime \' ability stream live and stored video and audio over the Internet. QuickTime Streaming Server can downloaded for free Open Source software and included Mac Server. July , Apple introduced QuickTime (QTV), high quality network for Internet-based video and audio streaming. QTV integrates four key elements: Apple\' QuickTime Player software, Apple\' open-source QuickTime Streaming Server software, video and audio content from leading providers, and the streamed content delivery service offered Apple and Akamai Technologies, Inc. QTV currently has over channels encompassing many leading news, entertainment, music, radio, and educational content providers. WebObjects-Registered Trademark-, the Company\' web application server software, offers complete solution for rapid development and deployment web applications. WebObjects features sophisticated graphical development tools, comprehensive prebuilt and reusable components, integration with numerous data sources, and robust deployment tools. Apple currently offers four free Internet services collectively called iTools. KidSafe service designed control children\' use the Internet making only approved websites available them. Mac Com email service run Apple. iDisk offers users megabytes private public storage Apple\' Internet servers. HomePage allows users create their own personal website hosted Apple with personalized content including data, pictures, and movies. addition the four iTools, Apple also offers its corporate website iReview, Internet site review guide, and iCards, electronic greeting card service. January , the Company and EarthLink Network Inc. (EarthLink), Internet service provider (ISP), entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the United States. Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Mac customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service, for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP Apple\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the United States. THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE PRODUCTS Thousands third-party software titles and solutions are available for the Macintosh platform. The Company sells variety these third-party software products directly end users through its -line store. Additional information regarding the Company\' relationship with and dependence upon third-party software developers, including Microsoft Corporation, may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Support from Third-Party Software Developers" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. MARKETS AND DISTRIBUTION The Company\' customers are primarily the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. Certain customers are attracted Macintosh computers for variety reasons, including the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh computer\' intuitive ease use, advanced graphics capabilities, industrial design features the Company\' hardware products, ability Macintosh computers network and communicate with other computer systems and environments, and availability application software. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late 1970s. the United States, the Company one the major suppliers personal computers for both elementary and secondary school customers, well for college and university customers. The Company also supplier institutions higher education outside the United States. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. During , single distributor, Ingram Micro Inc., accounted for approximately % net sales. other customer accounted for more than % net sales during , and individual customer accounted for more than % net sales . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets consumers, certain education customers, and certain resellers either directly through one its -line stores around the world. During , net sales attributable the Company\' -line stores totaled approximately $ billion. COMPETITION The market for the design, manufacture, and sale personal computers and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development, which have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and has resulted the frequent introduction new products and significant price, feature, and performance competition. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. The principal competitive factors this market are relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. The Company currently taking and will continue take steps respond the competitive pressures being placed its personal computer sales result innovations the Windows platform. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing platforms. Further information relating the competitive conditions the personal computing industry and the Company\' competitive position that market place may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. RAW MATERIALS Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through purchase orders typically covering the Company\' forecasted requirements for periods from days. However, the Company continues evaluate the need for supply contract each situation. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position. this time, such vendors include Alpha-Top Corporation, Ambit Microsystems Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Darfon Electronics Corporation, Hon Hai Precision Industry ., Ltd., IBM Corporation, Electronics, Lucent Technologies Inc., Matsushita, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Motorola, Inc., NatSteel Electronics PTE Ltd., Philips Semiconductors, Samsung Electronics, and Quanta Computer, Inc. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product," which information hereby incorporated reference. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products and technology the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and the Internet. The Company\' research and development expenditures, before any charges for -process research and development, totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, peripheral systems, and software. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks the United States and number foreign countries for "Apple-Registered Trademark-", the Apple silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh-Registered Trademark-," and numerous other product trademarks. , the Company acquired ownership the trademark "Macintosh" for use connection with computer products. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, and trademarks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. However, litigation has arisen out any these claims that has had, expected have, adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company believes that any necessary patent other rights could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available acceptable terms, all, that the Company would prevail any such challenge. The failure obtain necessary licenses other rights, litigation arising out such claims, could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA The United States represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\' net sales fiscal came from operations inside the United States. Final assembly products sold the Company conducted the Company\' manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore and external vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information hereby incorporated reference. Additional information regarding the risks associated with international operations set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks," included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. SEASONAL BUSINESS Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the school year. However, past performance should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future net sales financial performance. WARRANTY The Company offers limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the end user. The Company also offers -day warranty for Apple software and for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most Apple hardware products all the Company\' major markets. BACKLOG the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. EMPLOYEES September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , employees and additional , temporary employees and contractors. ITEM . PROPERTIES The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms three five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento and Cork facilities also house customer call centers. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company subject certain legal proceedings and claims, including those described below, which have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. The results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty; however, the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. FTC INQUIRY-PRADO . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (AND RELATED ACTIONS) October , Apple began charging all . non-education customers for live telephone technical support beyond days after purchase Apple products. late , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) commenced investigation into customer complaints that Apple\' change technical support practices was either unfair contrary earlier representations certain customers. Four purported class action lawsuits were filed against Apple related this change. During the fourth quarter , the regional and national offices the FTC approved settlement with the Company, and settlement was approved the Court three the class action suits. November , two appeals were filed objecting the settlement and the settlement stayed pending resolution the appeals. MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORPORATION . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff, Microware Systems Corporation (Microware), filed this action against the Company September , , the United States District Court for the Southern District Iowa. Microware alleged that the Company\' current release its Mac operating system, Mac , infringed Microware\' trademark for its real time operating system, - . Microware asserted claims for trademark infringement, false designation origin, dilution and common law trademark infringement and unfair competition. October , , Microware filed motion for preliminary injunction seeking enjoin the Company from using the designation "Mac " and order the Company cancel and withdraw all packaging and advertisements that mention "Mac ." The Company opposed the motion for preliminary injunction and filed motion for summary judgment against all Microware\' claims. The Court denied Microware\' request for preliminary injunction and granted Apple\' motion for summary judgment. Microware has filed appeal which will heard January . STERNBERG . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. AND GORDON . . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff Sternberg filed this action against the Company March , the Santa Clara County Superior Court. The case purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf certain purchasers iMac and iMac computers. Plaintiff alleges that Apple engaged false advertising, unfair competition and breach warranty, among other causes action, marketing and selling DVD player with iMac and iMac computers where the playback was unacceptable. companion case, GORDON . . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. was filed largely the same plaintiffs June , . This case essentially the same Sternberg but with respect different computer model--the Power Macintosh . The Company has answered both complaints, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has responded written discovery and has produced documents. The parties have agreed mediate the cases. The mediation expected occur the end January . PIERCE . . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff Pierce filed this action June , Santa Clara County Superior Court. This case purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf purchasers the Company\' AirPort Card and AirPort Base Station ("AirPort System"). Plaintiffs allege that the Company engaged false advertising and unfair business practices (among other causes action) advertising that the Airport System Internet-ready and failing disclose that the Airport System incompatible with certain Internet service providers, primarily America Online. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has responded written discovery. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . PART ITEM . MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT\' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All share price and per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. FIVE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales.................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss)............................ $ $ $ $ ( , ) $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic...................................... $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted.................................... $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cash dividends declared per common share..... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic...................................... , , , , , Diluted.................................... , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt............................... $ $ $ $ $ Shareholders\' equity......................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net gains before taxes resulting from sales equity investment $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the Company acquired NeXT Software, Inc., resulting the allocation -process research and development charge $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. Also , the Company agreed acquire certain assets from Power Computing Corporation (PCC). The total purchase price was approximately $ million, which $ million was expensed "termination license agreement." ITEM . MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. RESULTS OPERATIONS The following table sets forth annual results operations for fiscal years , , and ( millions, except unit shipment and per share amounts): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales....................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands)....... , % , % , Gross margin.................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....................... % % % Research and development........................ $ % $ % $ Percentage net sales....................... % % % Selling, general and administrative............. $ , % $ % $ Percentage net sales....................... % % % Operating income before special charges......... $ % $ % $ Special charges: -process research and development........... $ -- $ -- $ Restructuring costs........................... $ $ $ -- Special charges............................... $ $ -- $ -- Operating income................................ $ % $ % $ Gains from sales investment.................. $ $ $ Interest and other income, net.................. $ % $ % $ Provision for income taxes...................... $ % $ % $ Net income...................................... $ % $ % $ Earnings per common share: Basic......................................... $ % $ % $ Diluted....................................... $ % $ % $ The following table sets forth quarterly results operations for fiscal and ( millions, except unit sales and per share amounts): YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands).......... , , , , Gross margin................ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Gross margin percentage... % % % % % % % % Operating expenses.......... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Special charges............. -- -- -- -- -- Operating income............ Operating margin percentage.............. % % % % % % % % Gains from sales investment................ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Interest and other income, net....................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Provision for income taxes..................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Net income.................. $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic..................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ FISCAL OVERVIEW SALES During , the Company experienced % increase net sales over which was the result % rise Macintosh unit sales. This increase Macintosh unit sales primarily attributable increased sales iMac, the company\' moderately priced desktop Macintosh system designed for the education and consumer markets, and the introduction iBook, the Company\' consumer and education oriented notebook computer introduced the end . The Company sold approximately million iMacs , increase approximately , units % over iMac unit sales . During , the Company sold approximately , iBooks. iBook contributed $ million net sales during . The Company also experienced modest gains combined unit sales its professionally oriented Macintosh systems, PowerMacs and PowerBooks. Growth net sales and unit sales was strong all the Company\' geographic operating segments, particularly Europe and Japan. PROFITABILITY The Company experienced improved profitability . Operating income before special charges rose % $ million from $ million . Improved profitability was driven the % increase net sales, stable overall gross margins compared , and relatively modest increase operating expenses before special charges %. OPERATING TRENDS Despite overall increases during net sales, unit sales, and profitability, the Company\' performance the fourth quarter fiscal was disappointing. Net sales during the fourth quarter fell short the Company\' expectations approximately $ million causing operating margin before special charges fall % for the quarter compared the % experienced during the first nine months fiscal . The fourth quarter revenue shortfall was primarily the result three factors. First, fourth quarter net sales the Cube, new Macintosh system announced and introduced the Company during the fourth quarter, did not meet the Company\' expectations. combination with related displays, Cube sales were approximately $ million short expectations. Second, net sales the Company\' education market fell short expectations approximately $ million. Third, although total fourth quarter Power Mac unit sales were close expectations, the Company experienced unanticipated mix shift towards lower priced Power Mac configurations resulting lower than anticipated net sales for the quarter approximately $ million. The Company ended with substantially more inventory its distribution channels than planned due the lower than expected sell-through the Company\' products during the fourth quarter. OUTLOOK The Company currently anticipates significant sequential decline quarterly net sales during the first quarter fiscal approximately $ billion. This decline anticipated because continued deterioration demand experienced the Company during the first two months fiscal , rebate programs and price cuts instituted during the first quarter that will cost the Company approximately $ million, and plan reduce substantially the end the first quarter the level inventory the Company\' distribution channels from the amounts the end fiscal . addition, the Company expects incur approximately $ million cancellation charges related purchase orders for proprietary components due the reduced sales outlook. result these factors, the Company anticipates reporting net loss, before the effect any investment gains, the range $ million $ million for the first quarter . For all , the Company anticipates net sales will decline compared , falling the range $ billion $ billion. The Company currently expects that will profitable, before the effect any investment gains, during each the last three quarters . The foregoing statements concerning the Company\' anticipated operating results during the first quarter and the Company\' anticipated operating result for all are forward-looking. The Company\' actual results could differ. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent upon general economic conditions, market conditions within the industry, and the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet the dynamic conditions within the highly competitive market for personal computers. Some the potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition are discussed throughout this Item , including the discussion under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." NET SALES Net sales for geographic segments and Macintosh unit sales geographic segment and product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Americas net sales................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales..................................... , % , % , Japan net sales...................................... , % % Asia Pacific net sales............................... % % Other segments net sales............................. % ( )% ------ ------ ------ Total net sales.................................... $ , % $ , % $ , ====== ====== ====== Americas Macintosh unit sales........................ , % , % , Europe Macintosh unit sales.......................... , % % Japan Macintosh unit sales........................... % % Asia Pacific Macintosh unit sales.................... % % ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales......................... , % , % , ====== ====== ====== Power Macintosh unit sales........................... , % , % , PowerBook unit sales................................. % ( )% Cube unit sales................................... -- -- -- -- iMac unit sales( )................................... , % , % , iBook unit sales..................................... -- -- -- ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales......................... , % , % , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Unit sales figures for iMac include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. Net sales rose % total $ billion compared . The increase net sales resulted directly from % increase Macintosh unit sales. Driving unit sales growth was % increase combined unit sales the Company\' consumer and education Macintosh systems, iMac and iBook, and modest increase % combined units sales the Company\' professionally oriented Macintosh systems. Combined unit sales iMac and iBook systems accounted for % total Macintosh unit sales and % . This trend highlights the increasing importance the Company its consumer and education markets. During , the average revenue per Macintosh system, function total net sales generated hardware shipments and total Macintosh CPU unit sales, $ , was relatively unchanged from . This was due increased unit sales higher priced Power Mac, PowerBook, iBook, and Cube systems offset increases unit sales lower priced iMac systems. Additional comments regarding net sales for may found above under the heading "Fiscal Overview." Net sales increased $ million % $ billion compared . The primary source this growth was overall % increase Macintosh unit sales, which was reflective strong unit growth all the Company\' geographic operating segments. Offsetting the rise unit shipments during was decline the average revenue per Macintosh system which fell % $ , from $ , . The decline during the average revenue per Macintosh system was attributable lower pricing for both iMac and Power Mac products, which reflects the continuing overall industry trend towards lower pricing. The decline was also attributable the shift the Company\' unit mix toward lower-priced consumer products such that iMac units and comparable products comprised % total Macintosh unit sales versus % . Net sales declined sequentially during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter $ million %, and declined $ million % compared the same period . Similarly, Macintosh unit sales declined % and % during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter and the same period , respectively. The primary causes for these declines both net sales and unit sales were lower than planned deliveries PowerPC processors from Motorola and production interruptions vendors supplying PowerBooks and iBooks experienced during the last week the fourth quarter result the earthquake Taiwan September , . The shortage processors reduced Power Macintosh net sales approximately $ million during the fourth quarter . SEGMENT OPERATING PERFORMANCE The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' geographic segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information hereby incorporated reference. AMERICAS Net sales and unit sales the Americas segment increased % and %, respectively, during compared . During , the Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\' total net sales and total Macintosh unit sales, respectively. The growth the Americas\' net sales was indicative strong growth unit sales iMac and iBook and relatively flat unit sales professionally oriented Macintosh systems. Net sales the Americas segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Americas between and . During , the Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\' total net sales and total Macintosh unit sales, respectively. The results experienced this segment reflect the overall trends experienced the Company during increasing Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. EUROPE Net sales the Europe segment increased % during driven % increase Macintosh unit sales. Growth unit sales resulted from % increase combined unit sales iMac and iBook, and increase % combined units sales the Company\' professionally oriented Macintosh systems. Net sales the Europe segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Europe segment between and . Like the Americas segment, Europe\' results compared were indicative strong growth Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. JAPAN AND ASIA PACIFIC Net sales the Japan segment increased % $ billion compared , while Japan\' Macintosh unit sales increased %. The fact that Japan\' net sales rose higher rate than its unit sales reflects several factors. First, iMac unit sales Japan were relatively flat year-over-year. Second, unit sales iBook, which generally carry higher price than iMac units and which were first sold Japan during , accounted for approximately % Japan\' total Macintosh unit sales during . Third, Japan saw % increase combined unit sales the Company\' professionally oriented Macintosh systems. The majority the increase both net sales and unit sales the Asia Pacific segment can attributed sales the Cube and iBook, both which were introduced the region during . Macintosh unit sales and net sales Asia, particularly Japan, recovered during from the declines experienced . Net sales the Japan segment increased % $ million total $ million compared . Macintosh unit sales Japan increased % during compared while Macintosh unit sales the Asia Pacific segment increased %. The increases net sales and Macintosh unit sales both Japan and Asia Pacific are the result strong iMac sales experienced these operating segments, strong growth Japanese consumer sales, and the general economic recovery experienced the region. BACKLOG the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over-ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found below under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. GROSS MARGIN Gross margin was relatively stable during compared , declining % during from % during . The half point decline primarily the result shift mix unit sales away from the Company\' higher priced, higher margin professionally oriented Macintosh systems towards its lower priced, lower margin consumer and education oriented Macintosh systems. Also contributing the relative stability its gross margin, the Company experienced relatively stable component pricing during compared . Gross margin increased percentage net sales during % compared % . This increase was primarily attributable declines the cost various components the Company\' products, improvements manufacturing efficiencies brought about selective outsourcing final assembly certain the Company\' products, improved design products leading lower manufacturing and warranty costs, and relatively stable pricing the Company\' products over the last six months . During , the Company was also able fully realize the benefits actions taken primarily and that led improved inventory management and more efficient distribution model for its products. There can assurance current gross margins will maintained, targeted gross margin levels will achieved, current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations exchange rates. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company recognizes focused investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. Expenditures research and development increased % $ million $ million compared . This followed $ million % increase compared . Spending & has remained approximately % net sales during each the last three years. The overall increase & spending over the last two years directly related increases & headcount approximately % over that time support expanded product development efforts. SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE Selling, general, and administrative expenditures increased % $ , million compared and decreased % net sales from % . This increase total expenditures resulted from higher spending for promotional and marketing activities, increased sales expenses resulting from higher net sales, and % increase combined sales, marketing, and general and administrative headcount from the end the end . Selling, general, and administrative expenditures increased % $ million compared and increased % net sales from % . These increases are primarily the result increased spending marketing and promotional activities throughout and % increase combined sales, marketing, and general and administrative headcount from the end the end . SPECIAL CHARGES RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter reflects $ million excess reserves related prior restructuring actions. The $ million cost these actions was comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued. During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter . The charge was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees. EXECUTIVE BONUS During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Net interest income increased $ million % $ million during compared . This increase attributable three principal factors. First, the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased $ million % during . Second, the weighted-average interest rate earned the Company its cash equivalents and short-term investments increased % the end compared % the end . The combination these first two factors increased interest income during $ million. Third, interest expense declined $ million during result the conversion approximately $ million the Company\' convertible subordinated notes common stock during the third quarter . During , the Company experienced $ million increase net interest income, primarily the result higher cash and investment balances, and decreased interest expense associated with the conversion the convertible subordinated notes during the third quarter . GAIN FROM SALE INVESTMENT The Company holds significant equity investment ARM Holdings plc (ARM), publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. September , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. During , the Company sold total million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. During , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % the shares held ARM that time for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million. The Company also recognized during other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. Further information related the Company\' investment ARM and gains recognized related that investment may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. This asset generally realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Company\' effective tax rate for was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily the reversal portion the previously established valuation allowance and certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes were provided. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS June , Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" was issued. SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires entity recognize all derivatives either assets liabilities the statement financial position and measure those instruments fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral the Effective Date FASB Statement . ," was issued. The statement deferred the effective date SFAS . until the first quarter fiscal . The Company will adopt SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," October , . Net the related income tax effect, the adoption SFAS . expected have favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million and favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income $ million. Management does not believe that adoption SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. December , the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , "Revenue Recognition Financial Statements." SAB , amended, summarizes certain the SEC\' views applying generally accepted accounting principles revenue recognition financial statements and provides guidance revenue recognition issues the absence authoritative literature addressing specific arrangement specific industry. The Company will adopt SAB the first quarter fiscal year . Adoption this guidance not expected have material impact the Company\' financial position results operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): -------- -------- -------- Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments.......... $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net.................................... $ $ $ Inventory................................................... $ $ $ Working capital............................................. $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable( )........................ Days supply inventory( ).............................. Operating cash flow......................................... $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ million % over the same balances the end . During , the Company\' primary source cash was $ million cash flows from operating activities. Cash generated operations was primarily from net income and increases accounts payable and other current liabilities partially offset increase accounts receivable. The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral against outstanding derivative positions. addition the net purchase short-term investments $ million, net cash used investing activities consisted primarily $ million for the purchase long-term investments, including $ million invested EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink) discussed below, and $ million for the purchase fixed assets. These uses cash were partially offset proceeds from sales ARM shares $ million. The Company currently expects capital expenditures increase approximately $ million during accommodate information systems enhancements and strategic initiatives. July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During , the Company repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Since inception the plan, the Company has repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. The Company believes its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient meet its cash requirements over the next twelve months, including any cash utilized its stock repurchase plan. However, given the Company\' current non-investment grade debt ratings (Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency and Moody\' Investor Services Ba2), the Company should need obtain short-term borrowings, there can assurance such borrowings could obtained favorable rates. The inability obtain such borrowings favorable rates could materially adversely affect the Company\' results operations, financial condition, and liquidity. NON-CURRENT DEBT AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS The Company holds significant investments ARM, Samsung Electronics ., Ltd, Akamai Technologies, Inc., and EarthLink. These investments are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income. The combined fair value these investments was $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. COMPETITION The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected industry wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, and design and publishing. Additionally, several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce products that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft Windows operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS AND TRANSITIONS Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. During , the Company plans introduce new client operating system, Mac , which will offer advanced functionality based Apple and NeXT software technologies. Inability successfully introduce Mac timely basis, gain customer acceptance, obtain the commitment developers transition existing applications run Mac , ensure adequate backward-compatibility Mac with applications authored for previous version the Mac , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. INVENTORY AND SUPPLY The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through purchase orders typically covering the Company\' requirements for periods from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. The Company ended with substantially more inventory its distribution channels than planned due the lower than expected sell-through the Company\' products during the fourth quarter. The Company currently anticipates significant sequential decline quarterly net sales during the first quarter fiscal , part due the Company\' plan reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels from the amounts the end fiscal more normal levels the end the first quarter. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components (including without limitation DRAM, TFT-LCD flat-panel displays, and optical and magnetic disk drives), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries (such the cellular phone and automotive industries) that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, , possible, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using the Windows operating systems. Apple has been unable ship Macintosh systems with PowerPC microprocessors running above megahertz since such systems were first announced August due its microprocessor supplier\' inability provide the Company with faster microprocessors. Similar but less pronounced supply issues have also arisen with the Company\' supply faster PowerPC microprocessors. The Company believes that this inability obtain faster microprocessors had adverse impact the Company\' results operations during , particularly towards the end the fiscal year. The Company has been informed its suppliers that faster microprocessors will available sufficient quantity beginning the first half calendar . However, assurance can given that such faster microprocessors will actually available available sufficient quantities, and the inability the Company obtain faster microprocessors sufficient quantities during may have adverse impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Raw Materials," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product," which information hereby incorporated reference. EDUCATION MARKET Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers. result, the Company\' overall share this market has declined. Additionally, net sales the Company\' education market fell short expectations approximately $ million during the fourth quarter , primarily result the Company\' transition more direct sales model from model heavily dependent third party sales agents. Although the Company has initiated plan strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase its share the education market maintain its existing share that market. Failure increase maintain market share the education market may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets consumers, certain education customers, and certain resellers either directly through its -line stores around the world. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins, and may distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. GLOBAL MARKET RISKS large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. Historically, the Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can effect the cost the Company product components, negatively impacting the Company\' results operations. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. SUPPORT FROM THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. Moreover, the Company\' current plan introduce Mac during could cause software developers stop developing software for the current Mac , and there can assurance software developers will decide develop software for Mac timely basis all. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, for period five years from August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft will make future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has announced its intention , these agreements not require Microsoft produce future versions its products that are optimized run Mac . The Company will bundle the Internet Explorer product with Mac system software releases and make that product the default Internet browser for such Mac releases. While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Microsoft relationship for limited term and does not cover many the areas which the Company competes with Microsoft, including the Windows platform. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac , including Mac , not covered the relationship following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. addition, the Microsoft relationship may have adverse effect , among other things, the Company\' relationship with other partners. There can assurance that the benefits the Company the Microsoft relationship will not offset the disadvantages. PATENTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. However, litigation has arisen out any these claims that has had, expected have, adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company believes that any necessary patent other rights could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available acceptable terms, all, that the Company would prevail any such challenge. The failure obtain necessary licenses other rights, litigation arising out such claims, could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. PRODUCT, GEOGRAPHIC, AND CHANNEL MIX The Company\' profit margins vary among its products, its geographic markets, and its distribution channels. result, the overall profitability the Company any given period will depend, part, the product, geographic, and channel mix reflected that period\' net sales. INTRA-QUARTER SALES CYCLE Apple generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics components suppliers, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. DEPENDENCE KEY PERSONNEL Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where many the Company\' employees are located. There can assurance that the company will able successfully attract and retain the key personnel needs. Additionally, volatility lack positive performance the Company\' stock price may adversely affect its ability retain key employees. MINORITY INVESTMENTS The Company holds minority investments several public companies including Samsung Electronics ., Akamai Technologies, Inc., EarthLink, and ARM Holdings plc. The combined fair market value these investments was approximately $ million September , . The Company has categorized its investments these companies available-for-sale requiring the investments carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. These investments are publicly traded companies whose share prices are subject significant volatility. While the overall financial impact these investments has been positive through the end , adverse changes general market conditions poor operating results the underlying companies could result the Company\' inability ultimately realize the gains associated with the carrying value these investments. Permanent impairment the value one all these investments could cause the Company recognize loss some portion its original $ million investment remaining these four companies. EURO TRANSITION January , , eleven the fifteen member countries the European Union adopted the Euro their common legal currency and established fixed conversion rates between their existing sovereign currencies and the Euro. The Euro now traded currency exchanges and available for non-cash transactions. The transition period for introduction the Euro ends January , . The Company has taken steps evaluate internal system capabilities, review the ability financial institution vendors support Euro transactions, and examine current marketing and pricing policies and strategies light the Euro conversion. Additionally, the Company has begun the process updating its internal systems and processes accommodate full transition the Euro the transaction and reporting currency for its affected European subsidiaries. The transition the Euro may have competitive implications the Company\' pricing and marketing strategies, the impact which are not known this time. Additionally, the Company risk the extent its principal European suppliers and customers are unable deal effectively with the impact the Euro transition. Adoption the Euro and the costs incurred prepare for that adoption are not expected have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations financial condition. However, there can assurance all issues related the Euro conversion have been identified that adoption issues identified will addressed properly timely basis. Failure properly identify and address issues associated with adoption the Euro could have material adverse affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. VOLATILITY STOCK PRICE The Company\' stock has experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, well general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' common stock the future. OTHER FACTORS The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. ITEM . DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE AND FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the non-hedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\' operating results and financial position. The Company will adopt SFAS . October , . Management does not believe that adoption the new accounting standard will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. INTEREST RATE RISK While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\' investments and long-term debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its investments with high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. September , , substantially all the Company\' investments have maturities less than months. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The following table presents the principal ( notional) amounts and related weighted-average interest rates for the Company\' investment portfolio and its long-term debt obligations. The long-term debt comprised $ million unsecured notes described above, which mature February . The Company\' . corporate securities include commercial paper, loan participations, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments have generally been held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and September , . millions, except weighted-average interest rates SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , -------------------- -------------------- WEIGHTED- WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE CARRYING INTEREST CARRYING INTEREST AMOUNT RATE AMOUNT RATE -------- --------- -------- --------- Assets: Cash equivalents: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ -- --% $ % . corporate securities.......................... % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total cash equivalents........................... , % , % ------ ------ Short-term investments: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ % $ % . corporate securities.......................... , % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total short-term investments..................... , % , % ------ ------ Total investment securities.......................... $ , % $ , % ====== ====== Debt: Fixed rate........................................... $ % $ % ====== ====== During the last two years, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. The interest rate swaps, which qualify accounting hedges, generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date the asset swaps September with the remaining debt swaps maturing February . September , and September , , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and %, respectively. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , and September , , respectively. September , and September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and %, respectively; and weighted-average pay rates % and %, respectively. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , and $ million September , . FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and availability appropriate hedging instruments. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current assets and liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and marked market through earnings. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products and purchases raw material, sub-assemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company\' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign risk management program, currently does not extend beyond six months. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. The following table provides information about the Company\' foreign currency derivative financial instruments outstanding September , and September , . The information provided . dollar amounts, presented the Company\' consolidated financial statements. For foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents the notional amount ( contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. Generally, all instruments mature within months. Miscellaneous other currencies consist primarily the Canadian and Australian dollars. ----------------------------- ----------------------------- WEIGHTED-AVERAGE WEIGHTED-AVERAGE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE --------- ----------------- --------- ----------------- millions, except average contract rates and strike prices Foreign currency spot forward contracts: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total currency spot forward contracts....... $ , $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ $ ( ) ====== ====== Foreign currency purchased call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... -- -- -- Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ -- ------ ------ Total purchased call options............ $ $ ------ ------ Foreign currency purchased put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total purchased put options............. $ $ , ------ ------ Total foreign currency purchased options.... $ , $ , ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ $ ====== ====== Foreign currency sold call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total sold call options................. $ $ ------ ------ Foreign currency sold put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ -- -- British Pound Sterling.................... -- -- Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ -- ------ ------ Total sold put options.................. $ ------ ------ Total foreign currency sold options......... $ , $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ ( ) $ ( ) ====== ====== ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE - ------------------------------------------ -------- Financial Statements: Report Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP.................. Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , ...................................... Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , ............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements................ Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)...... Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule --Valuation and qualifying accounts.......... REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . connection with our audits the consolidated financial statements, have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Also our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic consolidated financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. KPMG LLP Mountain View, California October , CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS) SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------ ------------------ ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents................................. $ , $ , Short-term investments.................................... , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively............................................ Inventories............................................... Deferred tax assets....................................... Other current assets...................................... ------ ------ Total current assets.................................... , , Property, plant, and equipment, net....................... Non-current debt and equity investments................... Other assets.............................................. ------ ------ Total assets............................................ $ , $ , ====== ====== LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ Accrued expenses.......................................... ------ ------ Total current liabilities............................... , , Long-term debt.............................................. Deferred tax liabilities.................................... ------ ------ Total liabilities....................................... , , ------ ------ Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock, par value; , shares authorized, , and , issued and outstanding, respectively.................... Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively............................... , , Retained earnings......................................... , , Accumulated other comprehensive income.................... ------ ------ Total shareholders\' equity.............................. , , ------ ------ Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity.............. $ , $ , ====== ====== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- --------- Net sales................................................... $ , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................... , , , -------- -------- --------- Gross margin................................................ , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating expenses: Research and development.................................. Selling, general, and administrative...................... , Special charges: Executive bonus......................................... -- -- Restructuring costs..................................... -- -process research and development..................... -- -- -------- -------- --------- Total operating expenses.............................. , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating income............................................ Gains from sales investment.............................. Interest and other income, net.............................. -------- -------- --------- Total interest and other income, net........................ -------- -------- --------- Income before provision for income taxes.................... , Provision for income taxes.................................. -------- -------- --------- Net income.................................................. $ $ $ ======== ======== ========= Earnings per common share: Basic..................................................... $ $ $ Diluted................................................... $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic..................................................... , , , Diluted................................................... , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS WHICH ARE THOUSANDS) ACCUMULATED PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK OTHER TOTAL ------------------- ------------------- RETAINED COMPREHENSIVE SHAREHOLDERS\' SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT EARNINGS INCOME (LOSS) EQUITY -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------------- ------------- Balances September , ......... $ , $ $ $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income............................ -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation.......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------ Total comprehensive income.......... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans.................... -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the acquisition certain assets PCC................................... -- -- , -- -- Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options......... -- -- -- -- -- --- ---- ------- ------ ------ ----- ------ Balances September , ......... , ( ) , Components comprehensive income: Net income............................ Foreign currency translation.......... -- -- -- -- -- Unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax.............. -- -- -- -- -- Reclassification adjustment for gains available- for-sale securities included net income.............. -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------ Total comprehensive income.......... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans.................... -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the Company\' redemption long-term debt.................................. -- -- , -- -- Common stock repurchased................ -- -- ( , ) ( ) -- -- ( ) Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options......... -- -- -- -- -- --- ---- ------- ------ ------ ----- ------ Balances September , ......... , , , , Components comprehensive income: Net income............................ Foreign currency translation.......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax.............. -- -- -- -- -- Reclassification adjustment for gains available- for-sale securities included net income.............. -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------ Total comprehensive income.......... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans.................... -- -- , -- -- Conversion Series preferred stock................................. ( ) ( ) , -- -- -- Common stock repurchased................ -- -- ( , ) ( ) -- -- ( ) Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options......... -- -- -- -- -- --- ---- ------- ------ ------ ----- ------ Balances September , ......... $ , $ , $ , $ $ , === ==== ======= ====== ====== ===== ====== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( MILLIONS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- -------- Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year............ $ , $ , $ , ------ ------ ------ Operating: Net income.................................................. Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization............................. Provision for deferred income taxes....................... ( ) Loss sale property, plant, and equipment............ -- -- Gains from sales equity investment..................... ( ) ( ) ( ) -process research and development....................... -- -- Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable....................................... ( ) Inventories............................................... ( ) Other current assets...................................... ( ) ( ) Other assets.............................................. ( ) ( ) Accounts payable.......................................... Accrued restructuring costs............................... ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities................................. ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash generated operating activities.................. ------ ------ ------ Investing: Purchase short-term investments.......................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments.......... , , , Purchases long-term investments.......................... ( ) ( ) -- Proceeds from sale property, plant and equipment......... Purchase property, plant, and equipment.................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sales equity investment.................... Other....................................................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash used for investing activities...................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Financing: Decrease notes payable banks.......................... -- -- ( ) Proceeds from issuance common stock...................... Cash used for repurchase common stock.................... ( ) ( ) -- ------ ------ ------ Cash generated (used for) financing activities....... ( ) ------ ------ ------ Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents............ ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash and cash equivalents, end the year.................. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest.................... $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net................ $ $ $ ( ) Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for redemption long-term debt.................................................. -- $ -- Issuance common stock for acquisition PCC assets................................................ -- -- $ Issuance common stock for conversion Series Preferred Stock....................................... $ -- -- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software and peripherals for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. BASIS PRESENTATION AND PREPARATION The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. During the first quarter , the Company amended its -laws provide that beginning its fiscal year would end the last Saturday September rather than the last Friday. Likewise, beginning with the first fiscal quarter each the Company\' fiscal quarters now also end Saturday rather than Friday. Accordingly, one day was added the first quarter that the quarter ended Saturday, December , . These changes did not have material effect the Company\' revenue results operations for any quarter during fiscal . Fiscal years and , each -week years, both ended September 25th. Approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. Consequently, additional week was added the first quarter fiscal . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. INVESTMENTS All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. Investments with maturities greater than twelve months are classified long-term assets. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and availability appropriate hedging instruments. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current assets and liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products and purchases raw material, subassemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company\' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign exchange risk management program currently does not extend beyond six months. addition, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest rate and foreign exchange instruments generally qualify accounting hedges their maturity dates are the same the hedged transactions and the hedged transactions meet certain requirements. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions regular basis based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event determined hedge ineffective, including and when the hedged transactions longer exist, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and marked market through earnings. June , Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" was issued. SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires entity recognize all derivatives either assets liabilities the statement financial position and measure those instruments fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral the Effective Date FASB Statement . ," was issued. The statement deferred the effective date SFAS . until the first quarter . The Company will adopt SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," October , . Net the related income tax effect, the adoption SFAS . expected have favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million and favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income $ million. Management does not believe that adoption SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms estimated useful lives for leasehold improvements. INTERNAL-USE SOFTWARE Software acquired developed for internal use stated cost and classified the balance sheet other assets. Depreciation computed straight-line basis using estimated useful life more than years. During fiscal year , the Company adopted the American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , "Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use." SOP - requires the capitalization certain internal costs incurred the acquisition development internal-use software. The adoption SOP - did not have material impact the Company\' consolidated results operations financial position during . September , and September , , the net carrying amount software was $ million and $ million, respectively. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) LONG-LIVED ASSETS The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount, including the unamortized portion any allocated goodwill, future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets, including any allocated goodwill, exceeds its fair market value. The recoverability enterprise level goodwill assessed whenever the facts and circumstances suggest the asset may impaired. The Company assesses the recoverability enterprise level goodwill determining whether the unamortized goodwill balance can recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made material adjustments its long-lived assets except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other entities use the . dollar their functional currency and remeasure monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the Company\' results operations and were not significant , . REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Generally, these criteria are met the time product shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns, price protection, rebates, and other sales programs. December , the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , "Revenue Recognition Financial Statements." SAB , amended, summarizes certain the SEC\' views applying generally accepted accounting principles revenue recognition financial statements and provides guidance revenue recognition issues the absence authoritative literature addressing specific arrangement specific industry. The Company will adopt SAB the first quarter fiscal year . Adoption this guidance not expected have material impact the Company\' financial position results operations. WARRANTY EXPENSE The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Software development costs are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for release customers. Generally, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. result, costs subsequent achieving technological feasibility have not been significant and all software development costs have been expensed. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method and has provided Note pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect convertible securities reflected using the -converted method. STOCK SPLIT June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency and from unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale. See Note for additional information regarding available-for-sale securities. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities amortized cost, which approximates fair value, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , AMORTIZED COST AMORTIZED COST ------------------ ------------------ . Treasury securities.................... $ -- $ . corporate securities................... Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included cash and cash equivalents............................. , , . Treasury securities.................... . corporate securities................... , Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included short-term investments............................. , , ------ ------ Total..................................... $ , $ , ====== ====== September , and September , , substantially all the Company\' investments had maturities less than twelve months. The Company\' . corporate securities include . Government Agency notes, certificates deposit, commercial paper and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participations, time deposits and certificates deposit with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments are generally held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral against outstanding derivative positions. TRADE RECEIVABLES The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and directly certain education and consumer customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Latin America and Asia. However, considerable trade receivables which are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions). SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------- NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS --------- --------- ----------- --------- -------- ----------- Transactions qualifying accounting hedges: Interest rate instruments: Swaps....................................... $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ -- Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net................. $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Purchased options, net...................... $ $ $ -- $ , $ $ -- Transactions other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net................. $ $ -- $ -- $ $ ( ) $ -- Purchased options, net...................... $ , $ $ $ $ $ Sold options, net........................... $ , $ ( ) $ -- $ $( ) $ -- The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The interest rate swaps, which qualify accounting hedges, generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date the asset swaps September and the debt swaps mature February . September , and September , , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and %, respectively. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , , and September , , respectively. September , and September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and % respectively; and weighted-average pay rate % and %, respectively. The unrealized gains and NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , and $ million September , . The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value other current assets and liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. September , , maturity dates for foreign exchange forward contracts held the Company ranged from one five months. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were not significant September , , and September , . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the option carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts and sold option contracts ranged from one five months. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, which mature , the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. These agreements require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds are exceeded. The amounts held margin accounts were not significant September , . LONG-TERM DEBT UNSECURED NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . September , and September , , the carrying amount these notes was $ million, while the fair value was $ million and $ million, respectively. The fair value the notes based their listed market values September , and September , . CONVERTIBLE NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the Notes) certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par, paid interest semiannually, and matured June , not converted earlier. The Notes NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) were convertible their holders any time after September , , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes were redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , . April , , the Company called for redemption the Notes. Not including approximately $ million unamortized debt issuance costs, debentures aggregate principal amount outstanding totaled approximately $ million March , . During the third quarter , debenture holders chose convert virtually all the outstanding debentures common stock rate $ per share resulting the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock. NON-CURRENT DEBT AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND RELATED GAINS The Company holds significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai) and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). These investments are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income. The combined fair value these investments was $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. ARM HOLDINGS ARM publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. September , , the Company held approximately million shares ARM stock with fair value $ million. Share data for ARM presented this Form - has been adjusted reflect ARM\' four-for-one stock split April and its five-for-one stock split April . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company held million shares ARM stock valued $ million. September , , the Company owned % the outstanding stock ARM. The Company had accounted for this investment using the equity method through September , . April , , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % its shares the offering for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million. Foreign tax recognized this gain was approximately $ million. the time equity method investee sells existing newly issued common stock unrelated parties excess its book value, the equity method requires the net book value the investment adjusted reflect the investor\' share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from the sale. the Company\' policy record adjustment reflecting its share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from such sale gain loss other income. Consequently, the Company also NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) recognized the third quarter other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. September , , the carrying value the Company\' investment ARM carried other assets the consolidated balance sheet was approximately $ million. October , , the Company sold million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock. result this sale, the Company\' ownership interest ARM fell %. Consequently, beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company ceased accounting for its remaining investment ARM using the equity method and categorized its remaining shares available-for-sale. EARTHLINK January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the United States. Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Mac customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP Apple\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the United States. The fair value the Company\' investment EarthLink approximately $ million September , . SAMSUNG During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment, the form three year unsecured bonds, convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning July . The bonds carry annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung approximately $ million September , . AKAMAI June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. The fair value the Company\' investment Akamai approximately $ million September , . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT DETAILS ( MILLIONS) INVENTORIES -------- -------- Purchased parts............................................. $ $ Work process............................................. Finished goods.............................................. --- --- Total inventories........................................... $ $ === === PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT -------- -------- Land and buildings.......................................... $ $ Machinery and equipment..................................... Office furniture and equipment.............................. Leasehold improvements...................................... ----- ----- Accumulated depreciation and amortization................... ( ) ( ) ----- ----- Net property, plant, and equipment.......................... $ $ ===== ===== ACCRUED EXPENSES -------- -------- Accrued compensation and employee benefits.................. $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution.......................... Accrued warranty and related costs.......................... Other current liabilities................................... ---- ---- Total accrued expenses...................................... $ $ ==== ==== INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME, NET -------- -------- -------- Interest income......................................... $ $ $ Interest expense........................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss)............................ ( ) ( ) Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments........................................... ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net............................. ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS AND RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan designed reduce costs and return the Company profitability. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted charge during $ million. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions. All material restructuring actions contemplated under the plan were essentially complete the end . The combined and restructuring actions consisted terminating approximately , full-time employees; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings, and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that were not critical the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . the combined and restructuring charges $ million, approximately $ million was determined excess during the fourth quarter and was reversed. The Company expects the remaining accrual for payments canceled facility leases will result cash expenditures approximately $ million . The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , , associated with the and restructuring actions described above ( millions): PAYMENTS EMPLOYEES PAYMENTS WRITE-DOWN PAYMENTS INVOLUNTARILY CANCELED FACILITY OPERATING ASSETS CANCELED TERMINATED ( ) LEASES ( ) SOLD ( ) CONTRACTS ( ) TOTAL -------------- ----------------- ---------------- ------------- -------- Balances September , ......................... $ $ $ $ $ Adjustments during ........ ( ) -- Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... -- Adjustments during ........ ( ) ( ) -- ( ) Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) -- ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... -- -- Adjustments during ........ -- -- -- -- -- Spending during ........... -- ( ) -- ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... $ -- $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== ==== ==== ===== - ------------------------ ( ): Cash ( ): Noncash RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES (CONTINUED) reflects $ million excess reserves related prior restructuring actions. The $ million cost these actions was comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center, substantially all which had been spent the end the third quarter , and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued, substantially all which had been utilized the end the first quarter fiscal . During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter . The charge was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees and were substantially completed September , . RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. the $ million accrued for severance, $ million had been spent September , , and the remainder expected spent over the following two quarters. the $ million accrued for the write-off various assets, substantially all was utilized the end the second quarter . EXECUTIVE BONUS During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the company approximately $ million, the majority which not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. This executive bonus has been presented outside selling, general, and administrative expenses special charge. TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION May , the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. The acquisition resulted the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development, which was charged operations upon acquisition. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Federal: Current................................................. $ $ $-- Deferred................................................ -- ---- --- --- -- ---- --- --- State: Current................................................. -- -- -- Deferred................................................ -- ---- --- --- -- ---- --- --- Foreign: Current................................................. Deferred................................................ ( ) ( ) ---- --- --- ---- --- --- Provision for income taxes................................ $ $ $ ==== === === The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ , million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): -------- -------- Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves................ $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves.................... Basis capital assets and investments................... Tax losses and credits.................................... ----- ---- Total deferred tax assets................................. Less valuation allowance.................................... ----- ---- Net deferred tax assets..................................... ----- ---- Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries....................... Available-for-sale securities............................. Other..................................................... ----- ---- Total deferred tax liabilities............................ ----- ---- Net deferred tax asset (liability).......................... $( ) $ ===== ==== September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire . This does not include approximately $ million remaining operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT, which expire - , and the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT. The net change the total valuation allowance was decrease $ million. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Computed expected tax.................................. $ $ $ State taxes, net federal effect..................... Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation................... -- Change valuation allowance.......................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Other individually immaterial items.................... ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- Provision for income taxes............................. $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== Effective tax rate..................................... % % % The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During , the Company repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Since inception the plan, the Company has repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. PREFERRED STOCK August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. Upon any sale the preferred stock Microsoft, the shares will automatically converted into shares Apple common stock conversion price $ per share, and the shares can converted Microsoft\' option such price after August , . Each share preferred stock entitled receive, and when declared the Company\' Board Directors, dividend $ per share per annum, payable preference any dividend the Company\' common stock. Additionally, the dividends per share paid the common stock are greater than the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, then the Board Directors shall declare additional dividend such that the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, shall equal the dividends per share paid the common stock. September , , approximately , shares preferred stock were converted million shares the Company\' common stock. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS EXECUTIVE OFFICER STOCK PLAN The Company has effect Executive Officer Stock Plan (the Plan), which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated April , the Stock Option Plan terminated October , and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan the Chairman the Board Directors, executive officers the Company the level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP), for which directors the Company are eligible. Options granted under the DSOP vest three equal installments, each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. total , shares have been authorized for issuance under the DSOP, which , shares remain reserved for future issuance. Supplementally and separate from the DSOP, , options had been granted total two members the Company\' Board Directors, which , shares remain outstanding September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the six-month offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. During , , and , , , million and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED) matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , and September , and , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE -------- -------------- -------- -------------- -------- -------------- Options outstanding--beginning year............................... , $ , $ , $ Granted............................ , $ , $ , $ Exercised.......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ Forfeited.......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ------ ------ ------- Options outstanding--end year..... , $ , $ , $ ====== ====== ======= Options exercisable end year... , $ , $ , $ The options outstanding September , , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): OPTIONS OUTSTANDING OPTIONS EXERCISABLE ----------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- WEIGHTED- OPTIONS AVERAGE WEIGHTED OPTIONS WEIGHTED OUTSTANDING REMAINING AVERAGE EXERCISABLE AVERAGE SEPTEMBER , CONTRACTUAL LIFE EXERCISE SEPTEMBER , EXERCISE YEARS PRICE PRICE ----------------- ---------------- -------- ----------------- -------- $ -$ ................... , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ -- $ -- ------ ------ $ -$ ................... , $ , $ ====== ====== September , , approximately million options were reserved for future grant under the Company\' stock option plans. NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees," and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (CONTINUED) Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted-average fair value per share options granted during includes the excess value the repriced options granted during the fiscal year less the value the related forfeited options the date the repriced options were granted. The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: --------- --------- --------- Expected life options.................... years years years Expected life stock purchases............ months months months Interest rate--stock options................ % % % Interest rate--stock purchases.............. % % % Volatility--stock options................... % % % Volatility--stock purchases................. % % % Dividend yields............................. -- -- -- Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year................... $ $ $ The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not necessarily provide reliable single measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): -------- -------- -------- Net income-- reported................................ $ $ $ Net income--pro forma.................................. $ $ $ Net income per common share-- reported Basic................................................ $ $ $ Diluted.............................................. $ $ $ Net income per common share--pro forma Basic................................................ $ $ $ Diluted.............................................. $ $ $ SFAS . applicable only options granted shares issued subsequent September , , its pro forma effect was not fully reflected until . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES, AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company leases various facilities, equipment, and data transmission capacity under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): FISCAL YEARS - ------------ ........................................................ $ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ Later years................................................. ---- Total minimum lease payments................................ $ ==== CONCENTRATIONS THE AVAILABLE SOURCES SUPPLY MATERIALS AND PRODUCT Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. LITIGATION The Company subject certain legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. The results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty; however, the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES, AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (MICROWAREHOUSE) January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, and Japan. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable operating segment provides similar products and services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note . The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Operating income for each segment includes revenue, cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Net sales are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the reportable segment. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, income taxes, and nonrecurring charges for purchased -process research and development, restructuring, and acquisition related costs. Corporate expenses include research and development, manufacturing expenses not included segment cost sales, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) Summary information segment follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Americas: Net sales................................................. $ , $ , $ , Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets ( )........................................ $ $ $ Europe: Net sales................................................. $ , $ , $ , Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets............................................ $ $ $ Japan: Net sales................................................. $ , $ $ Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets............................................ $ $ $ Other segments: Net sales................................................. $ $ $ Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets............................................ $ $ $ - -------------------------- ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income, and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Segment operating income............................ $ , $ $ Corporate expenses, net............................. ( ) ( ) ( ) -process research and development................. -- -- ( ) Restructuring....................................... ( ) ( ) -- Executive bonus..................................... ( ) -- -- ------ ------ ------ Total operating income............................ $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== Segment assets...................................... $ , $ $ , Corporate assets.................................... $ , , , ------ ------ ------ Total assets...................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Segment depreciation and amortization............... $ $ $ Corporate depreciation and amortization............. ------ ------ ------ Total depreciation and amortization............... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore third-part vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. During , single distributor, Ingram Micro Inc. accounted for approximately % the Company\' net sales. Net sales during Ingram Micro Inc. the Americas and Europe segments were $ million and $ million, respectively. Net sales Ingram Micro Inc. all other segments were $ million. other single customer accounted for more than % net sales . single customer accounted for more than % net sales . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net sales: United States....................................... $ , $ , $ , Japan............................................... , Other foreign countries............................. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Long-Lived assets: United States....................................... $ $ $ Japan............................................... Other foreign countries............................. ------ ------ ------ Total long-lived assets........................... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net sales: Power Macintosh..................................... $ , $ , $ , PowerBook........................................... Cube............................................. -- -- iMac ( )............................................ , , , iBook............................................... -- Software, service, and other net sales.............. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Net sales figures for iMac include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share ( thousands, except net income (loss) and per share amounts): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , FOR THE YEARS ENDED - ------------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- Numerator ( millions): Numerator for basic earnings per share--net income.................. $ $ $ Interest expense convertible debt............................... -- -------- -------- -------- Numerator for diluted earnings per share--adjusted net income......... $ $ $ -------- -------- -------- Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings per share--weighted-average shares outstanding........................ , , , Effect dilutive securities: Convertible preferred stock........ , , , Dilutive options................... , , , Convertible debt................... -- , , -------- -------- -------- Dilutive potential common shares..... , , , -------- -------- -------- Denominator for diluted earnings per share--adjusted weighted-average shares and assumed conversions..... , , , ======== ======== ======== Basic earnings per share............... $ $ $ ======== ======== ======== Diluted earnings per share............. $ $ $ ======== ======== ======== Options purchase million, million and million shares common stock were outstanding the end , , and respectively, that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for those years and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- (TABULAR AMOUNTS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Gains before tax the sale ARM shares are recognized other income. Net income for the first quarter included net $ million restructuring charge for the write-off various operating assets and for severance payments associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions and $ million special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Gains before tax the sale ARM shares are recognized other income. Net income for the fourth quarter included net $ million restructuring charge for contract cancellation charges related previously outsourced services and previously discontinued business. Net income for the second quarter included $ million restructuring charge resulting from actions the Company improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations, which included moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( MILLIONS) CHARGED ALLOWANCE FOR BEGINNING COSTS AND ENDING DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS: BALANCE EXPENSES DEDUCTIONS( ) BALANCE - ------------------ --------- ---------- ------------- -------- Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT DIRECTORS Listed below are the Company\' directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. NAME POSITION WITH THE COMPANY AGE DIRECTOR SINCE - ---- ------------------------- -------- -------------- William . Campbell................. Director Gareth . Chang................... Director Millard . Drexler.................. Director Lawrence . Ellison................. Director Arthur . Levinson.................. Director Steven . Jobs...................... Director and Chief Executive Officer Jerome . York...................... Director WILLIAM . CAMPBELL has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("INTUIT") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation. GARETH . . CHANG the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board PingPong Technology. also the Executive Chairman Click2Asia com. Formerly, . Chang served Chairman and Chief Executive Officer STAR and Executive Director News Corporation. Prior joining STAR , . Chang was President Hughes Electronics International and President Direct International from . Previously, was Corporate Vice President McDonnell Douglas Corporation. currently member the Advisory Council Nike Inc. and serves the board SRS Labs Inc. MILLARD . DREXLER has been Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. since , and President since . . Drexler has been member the Board Directors Gap Inc. since November . also served the President the Gap Division from . LAWRENCE . ELLISON has been Chief Executive Officer and director Oracle Corporation ("ORACLE") since -founded Oracle May , and was President Oracle until June . . Ellison has been Chairman the Board Oracle since June . STEVEN . JOBS one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ("NEXT") and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. . Jobs currently director Gap Inc. ARTHUR . LEVINSON, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. ("GENENTECH") since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . JEROME . YORK Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micro Warehouse, Inc. Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director, MGM Mirage, Inc., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. and National TechTeam, Inc. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled "DIRECTORS". FRED . ANDERSON, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), position held from August March . TIMOTHY . COOK, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and interim Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Service & Support (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ("COMPAQ"). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. NANCY . HEINEN, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . RONALD . JOHNSON, Senior Vice President, New Business Development (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. JONATHAN RUBINSTEIN, Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. AVADIS TEVANIAN, ., ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. SINA TAMADDON, Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. SECTION ( ) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company, the absence Form , written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION INFORMATION REGARDING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the "NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS"). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE SECURITIES UNDERLYING ALL OTHER NAME AND FISCAL SALARY BONUS OPTIONS* COMPENSATION PRINCIPAL POSITION YEAR ($) ($) (#) ($) - ------------------ -------- -------- ---------- ------------ ------------ ANNUAL COMPENSATION LONG-TERM COMPENSATION Steven . Jobs................................ , , ( ) , , -- Chief Executive Officer -- -- -- -- -- -- Fred . Anderson.............................. , -- -- , ( ) Executive Vice President , -- , , ( ) and Chief Financial Officer , -- , ( ) , ( ) Ronald . Johnson............................. , , ( ) , , , ( ) Senior Vice President, -- -- -- New Business Development -- -- -- Mitchell Mandich.............................. , -- -- , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- , , ( ) Worldwide Sales( ) , -- , ( ) , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein........................... , -- -- , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- , , ( ) Hardware Engineering , -- , ( ) , ( ) - -------------------------- * Adjusted reflect the Company\' two-for-one stock split June ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for serving the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer for the past years without compensation, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . January , . Jobs accepted the position Chief Executive Officer the Company. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein, respectively, and canceled fiscal pursuant the December stock option exchange program. ( ) Includes $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) connection with his employment, . Johnson received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , . ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . ( ) Includes $ , from the disqualifying disposition shares Company stock acquired through the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR INDIVIDUAL GRANTS ------------------------------------------------------------- POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE NUMBER ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES STOCK SECURITIES PERCENT TOTAL PRICE APPRECIATION FOR OPTION UNDERLYING OPTIONS GRANTED EXERCISE TERM( ) OPTIONS EMPLOYEES BASE EXPIRATION ----------------------------- NAME GRANTED (#) FISCAL YEAR( ) PRICE ($/ )( ) DATE % ($) % ($) - ---- ----------- ---------------- --------------- ---------- ------------ -------------- Steven . Jobs........ , , % $ $ , , $ , , , Fred . Anderson...... -- -- -- -- -- -- Ronald . Johnson..... , , % $ $ , , $ , , Mitchell Mandich( )... -- -- -- -- -- -- Jonathan Rubinstein... -- -- -- -- -- -- - ------------------------ ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options granted fiscal year , including those granted . Johnson, typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. the options granted . Jobs, million options were immediately vested and exercisable the date grant; million vested July ; and the remaining million will vest July . ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . OPTIONS EXERCISED AND YEAR-END OPTION HOLDINGS The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES NUMBER SECURITIES UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED VALUE UNEXERCISED -THE- SHARES OPTIONS FISCAL YEAR-END MONEY OPTIONS FISCAL ACQUIRED VALUE (#) YEAR-END ($)( ) EXERCISE REALIZED ---------------------------- ---------------------------- NAME (#) ($)( ) EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE - ---- ----------- ----------- ------------ ------------- ------------ ------------- Steven . Jobs.......... -- -- , , ( ) , , $ , $ Fred . Anderson........ , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , Ronald . Johnson....... -- -- -- , , -- $ Mitchell Mandich( )..... , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein..... , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , - ------------------------ ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . DIRECTOR COMPENSATION , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the "DIRECTOR PLAN"). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ("INITIAL OPTIONS"). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ("ANNUAL OPTIONS"). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION Until April , the members the Compensation Committee were Messrs. Edgar . Woolard and Gareth . Chang. . Woolard retired from the Board Directors April and the Company ceased have active Compensation Committee. Since that time, the entire Board Directors has acted with respect matters previously considered the Compensation Committee. Neither Messrs. Woolard Chang were employees the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee fiscal year . During fiscal year , executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The following table sets forth certain information October , (the "TABLE DATE") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. SECURITY OWNERSHIP DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SHARES COMMON STOCK PERCENT NAME BENEFICIAL OWNER BENEFICIALLY OWNED( ) COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING - ------------------------ ---------------------- ------------------------ AIM Management Group............. , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs................... , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson................. , ( ) * William . Campbell.............. , ( ) * Gareth . . Chang............... , ( ) * Millard . Drexler............... , ( ) * Lawrence . Ellison.............. , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson................ * Arthur . Levinson............... , ( ) * Mitchell Mandich................. , ( ) * Jonathan Rubinstein.............. , ( ) * Jerome . York................... , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons)....................... , , % - ------------------------ ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F dated September , , filed AIM Management Group, Inc., Greenway Plaza, Suite , Houston, . The Form 13F filing for AIM Management Group, institutional investment advisor, also includes AIM Advisors, Inc., AIM Capital Management, Inc. and AIM Funds Management, Inc. Collectively, they are the beneficial owners , , shares % the Common Stock. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell, Chang, Ellison and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares which . Levinson holds indirectly. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Mandich has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. ITEM . ARRANGEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Company entered into employment agreement with . Anderson effective April , , pursuant which serves Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company. Pursuant his agreement, . Anderson entitled annual base salary less than $ , . . Anderson\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" any time during the five-year period following April , , will entitled receive lump sum severance payment equal the sum his annual base salary and target bonus, any. . Anderson\' agreement generally defines "Cause" include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his employment duties. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--STOCK OPTIONS the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted Fred . Anderson, Timothy . Cook, Nancy . Heinen, Mitchell Mandich, Sina Tamaddon, Jonathan Rubinstein and Avadis Tevanian provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS connection with the Company\' use aircraft transport its executive officers, the Company paid approximately $ , during fiscal year Wing & Prayer, company wholly-owned Lawrence . Ellison. connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, New Business Development) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lessor ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. ("MICROWAREHOUSE") January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. REPORT THE BOARD DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Until April , the members the Compensation Committee were Messrs. Edgar . Woolard and Gareth . Chang. . Woolard retired from the Board Directors April and the Company ceased have active Compensation Committee. result, the Company\' executive compensation program presently administered the Board. The Board reviews and approves the base salaries, bonuses, stock options and other compensation the executive officers and management-level employees the Company and administers the Company\' stock option plans. . Jobs who both member the Board and the Company\' Chief Executive Officer, does not participate deliberations the Board concerning executive compensation. The Company\' executive compensation program focuses Company performance, individual performance and increases stockholder value over time determinants executive pay levels. These principles are intended motivate executive officers improve the financial position the Company, hold executives accountable for the performance the organizations for which they are responsible, attract key executives into the service the Company, and create value for the Company\' shareholders. The compensation for executive officers based two elements: Cash compensation and equity-based compensation. CASH COMPENSATION The Company reviews executive compensation surveys both the computer industry and general industry ensure that the total cash compensation provided executive officers and senior management remains competitive levels that the Company can continue attract and retain management personnel with the talents and skills required meet the challenges highly competitive industry. The compensation executive officers reviewed annually. BONUSES For fiscal year , the Board established FY00 Vice Presidents and Directors Incentive Bonus Plan (the "BONUS PLAN"), under which cash bonuses for employees the level director and above were determined based specified revenue, unit shipments and profit targets for the Company. Because the Company achieved the metrics specified the Bonus Plan, payments were made thereunder. Executive officers and members the Board were not eligible participate the Bonus Plan and received other bonuses for fiscal year . EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION fiscal year , the Board emphasized equity-based compensation, principally the form options, the cornerstone the Company\' executive compensation program. Equity awards are typically set the Board based industry surveys, each officer\' individual performance and achievements, market factors and the recommendations management. fiscal year , executive officers were eligible receive grants stock options under the Executive Officer Stock Plan (" PLAN"). addition, executive officers were eligible participate the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During fiscal year , options were granted under the Plan Messrs. Jobs, Johnson, and Tamaddon and . Heinen. The options granted under the Plan were exercise price equal the fair market value the Common Stock the date grant and generally vest increments over four-year period after grant, subject the participant\' continued employment with the Company. However, the options granted . Jobs will vest full July . All options granted under the Plan expire ten years from the date grant, unless shorter term provided the option agreement the participant\' employment with the Company terminates before the end such ten-year period. COMPENSATION THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December , recognition . Jobs\' outstanding performance over the previous two and half years, the Board awarded . Jobs special executive bonus the form Gulfstream airplane. The Board anticipates delivering the plane . Jobs during fiscal . January , . Jobs accepted the position Chief Executive Officer, which had previously held interim basis. The Board that time granted . Jobs million options under the Plan. . Jobs will continue receive salary $ per year for the services performs the Company\' Chief Executive Officer. SECTION ( ) The Company intends that options granted under the Company\' stock option plans deductible the Company under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code , amended. MEMBERS THE BOARD DIRECTORS (EXCLUDING . JOBS) William . Campbell Gareth . Chang Millard . Drexler Lawrence . Ellison Arthur . Levinson Jerome . York PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - dated January , , report under Item (Other Events) that the Company\' Board Directors had granted the Company\' CEO, Steven . Jobs, stock options purchase twenty million shares (split adjusted) the Apple common stock and give . Jobs Gulfstream airplane recognition his service the Company during the preceding two and half years. ( ) Exhibits EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - --------------------- ------ DESCRIPTION Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - ------- ------ DESCRIPTION Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. 97K Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 97K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through May , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K-10A ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan. - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - ------- ------ DESCRIPTION ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION 97K** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubenstein. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through June , . ** Director Stock Option Plan ** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through June , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 97K Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent KPMG LLP. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement NOTES ----- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and - , - , , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement - Form - (file . - ) filed October , . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . NOTES ----- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 99K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 13th day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- / / STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and ------------------------------------------- Director (Principal December , STEVEN . JOBS Executive Officer) Executive Vice President / / FRED . ANDERSON and Chief Financial ------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal December , FRED . ANDERSON Financial Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL ------------------------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG ------------------------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / MILLARD . DREXLER ------------------------------------------- Director December , MILLARD . DREXLER / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON ------------------------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ------------------------------------------- Director December , ARTHUR . LEVINSON / / JEROME . YORK ------------------------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms three five additional years. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center. The Sacramento and Cork facilities also house customer call centers. addition, the Company owns , square feet facilities located Cupertino, California, used for research and development and corporate functions. Outside the United States, the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company subject certain legal proceedings and claims, including those described below, which have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. The results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty; however, the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. FTC INQUIRY-PRADO . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (AND RELATED ACTIONS) October , Apple began charging all . non-education customers for live telephone technical support beyond days after purchase Apple products. late , the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) commenced investigation into customer complaints that Apple\' change technical support practices was either unfair contrary earlier representations certain customers. Four purported class action lawsuits were filed against Apple related this change. During the fourth quarter , the regional and national offices the FTC approved settlement with the Company, and settlement was approved the Court three the class action suits. November , two appeals were filed objecting the settlement and the settlement stayed pending resolution the appeals. MICROWARE SYSTEMS CORPORATION . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff, Microware Systems Corporation (Microware), filed this action against the Company September , , the United States District Court for the Southern District Iowa. Microware alleged that the Company\' current release its Mac operating system, Mac , infringed Microware\' trademark for its real time operating system, - . Microware asserted claims for trademark infringement, false designation origin, dilution and common law trademark infringement and unfair competition. October , , Microware filed motion for preliminary injunction seeking enjoin the Company from using the designation "Mac " and order the Company cancel and withdraw all packaging and advertisements that mention "Mac ." The Company opposed the motion for preliminary injunction and filed motion for summary judgment against all Microware\' claims. The Court denied Microware\' request for preliminary injunction and granted Apple\' motion for summary judgment. Microware has filed appeal which will heard January . STERNBERG . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. AND GORDON . . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff Sternberg filed this action against the Company March , the Santa Clara County Superior Court. The case purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf certain purchasers iMac and iMac computers. Plaintiff alleges that Apple engaged false advertising, unfair competition and breach warranty, among other causes action, marketing and selling DVD player with iMac and iMac computers where the playback was unacceptable. companion case, GORDON . . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. was filed largely the same plaintiffs June , . This case essentially the same Sternberg but with respect different computer model--the Power Macintosh . The Company has answered both complaints, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has responded written discovery and has produced documents. The parties have agreed mediate the cases. The mediation expected occur the end January . PIERCE . . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. Plaintiff Pierce filed this action June , Santa Clara County Superior Court. This case purported nationwide consumer class action brought behalf purchasers the Company\' AirPort Card and AirPort Base Station ("AirPort System"). Plaintiffs allege that the Company engaged false advertising and unfair business practices (among other causes action) advertising that the Airport System Internet-ready and failing disclose that the Airport System incompatible with certain Internet service providers, primarily America Online. The Company has answered the complaint, denying all allegations and alleging numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has responded written discovery. ', 'item 4. ': "SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company' fiscal year ended September , . PART ", 'item 5. ': "MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS The Company' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. December , , there were , shareholders record. June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All share price and per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. The Company did not pay cash dividends either fiscal . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. The price range per share common stock represents the highest and lowest prices for the Company' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share............................ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ ", 'item 6. ': 'SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial information has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - order fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. FIVE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales.................................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss)............................ $ $ $ $ ( , ) $ ( ) Earnings (loss) per common share: Basic...................................... $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted.................................... $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cash dividends declared per common share..... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ Shares used computing earnings (loss) per share ( thousands): Basic...................................... , , , , , Diluted.................................... , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets................................. $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt............................... $ $ $ $ $ Shareholders\' equity......................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net gains before taxes resulting from sales equity investment $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , , and , respectively. During , the Company recognized the cost special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million. , the Company acquired NeXT Software, Inc., resulting the allocation -process research and development charge $ million for acquired -process technologies with alternative future use. Also , the Company agreed acquire certain assets from Power Computing Corporation (PCC). The total purchase price was approximately $ million, which $ million was expensed "termination license agreement." ', 'item 7. ': 'MANAGEMENT\' DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company\' actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition" below. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. RESULTS OPERATIONS The following table sets forth annual results operations for fiscal years , , and ( millions, except unit shipment and per share amounts): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales....................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands)....... , % , % , Gross margin.................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage net sales....................... % % % Research and development........................ $ % $ % $ Percentage net sales....................... % % % Selling, general and administrative............. $ , % $ % $ Percentage net sales....................... % % % Operating income before special charges......... $ % $ % $ Special charges: -process research and development........... $ -- $ -- $ Restructuring costs........................... $ $ $ -- Special charges............................... $ $ -- $ -- Operating income................................ $ % $ % $ Gains from sales investment.................. $ $ $ Interest and other income, net.................. $ % $ % $ Provision for income taxes...................... $ % $ % $ Net income...................................... $ % $ % $ Earnings per common share: Basic......................................... $ % $ % $ Diluted....................................... $ % $ % $ The following table sets forth quarterly results operations for fiscal and ( millions, except unit sales and per share amounts): YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST FOURTH THIRD SECOND FIRST QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Net sales................... $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Macintosh CPU unit sales ( thousands).......... , , , , Gross margin................ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Gross margin percentage... % % % % % % % % Operating expenses.......... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Special charges............. -- -- -- -- -- Operating income............ Operating margin percentage.............. % % % % % % % % Gains from sales investment................ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Interest and other income, net....................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Provision for income taxes..................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Net income.................. $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic..................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Diluted................... $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ FISCAL OVERVIEW SALES During , the Company experienced % increase net sales over which was the result % rise Macintosh unit sales. This increase Macintosh unit sales primarily attributable increased sales iMac, the company\' moderately priced desktop Macintosh system designed for the education and consumer markets, and the introduction iBook, the Company\' consumer and education oriented notebook computer introduced the end . The Company sold approximately million iMacs , increase approximately , units % over iMac unit sales . During , the Company sold approximately , iBooks. iBook contributed $ million net sales during . The Company also experienced modest gains combined unit sales its professionally oriented Macintosh systems, PowerMacs and PowerBooks. Growth net sales and unit sales was strong all the Company\' geographic operating segments, particularly Europe and Japan. PROFITABILITY The Company experienced improved profitability . Operating income before special charges rose % $ million from $ million . Improved profitability was driven the % increase net sales, stable overall gross margins compared , and relatively modest increase operating expenses before special charges %. OPERATING TRENDS Despite overall increases during net sales, unit sales, and profitability, the Company\' performance the fourth quarter fiscal was disappointing. Net sales during the fourth quarter fell short the Company\' expectations approximately $ million causing operating margin before special charges fall % for the quarter compared the % experienced during the first nine months fiscal . The fourth quarter revenue shortfall was primarily the result three factors. First, fourth quarter net sales the Cube, new Macintosh system announced and introduced the Company during the fourth quarter, did not meet the Company\' expectations. combination with related displays, Cube sales were approximately $ million short expectations. Second, net sales the Company\' education market fell short expectations approximately $ million. Third, although total fourth quarter Power Mac unit sales were close expectations, the Company experienced unanticipated mix shift towards lower priced Power Mac configurations resulting lower than anticipated net sales for the quarter approximately $ million. The Company ended with substantially more inventory its distribution channels than planned due the lower than expected sell-through the Company\' products during the fourth quarter. OUTLOOK The Company currently anticipates significant sequential decline quarterly net sales during the first quarter fiscal approximately $ billion. This decline anticipated because continued deterioration demand experienced the Company during the first two months fiscal , rebate programs and price cuts instituted during the first quarter that will cost the Company approximately $ million, and plan reduce substantially the end the first quarter the level inventory the Company\' distribution channels from the amounts the end fiscal . addition, the Company expects incur approximately $ million cancellation charges related purchase orders for proprietary components due the reduced sales outlook. result these factors, the Company anticipates reporting net loss, before the effect any investment gains, the range $ million $ million for the first quarter . For all , the Company anticipates net sales will decline compared , falling the range $ billion $ billion. The Company currently expects that will profitable, before the effect any investment gains, during each the last three quarters . The foregoing statements concerning the Company\' anticipated operating results during the first quarter and the Company\' anticipated operating result for all are forward-looking. The Company\' actual results could differ. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent upon general economic conditions, market conditions within the industry, and the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet the dynamic conditions within the highly competitive market for personal computers. Some the potential risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition are discussed throughout this Item , including the discussion under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition." NET SALES Net sales for geographic segments and Macintosh unit sales geographic segment and product follow (net sales millions and Macintosh unit sales thousands): CHANGE CHANGE -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- Americas net sales................................... $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales..................................... , % , % , Japan net sales...................................... , % % Asia Pacific net sales............................... % % Other segments net sales............................. % ( )% ------ ------ ------ Total net sales.................................... $ , % $ , % $ , ====== ====== ====== Americas Macintosh unit sales........................ , % , % , Europe Macintosh unit sales.......................... , % % Japan Macintosh unit sales........................... % % Asia Pacific Macintosh unit sales.................... % % ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales......................... , % , % , ====== ====== ====== Power Macintosh unit sales........................... , % , % , PowerBook unit sales................................. % ( )% Cube unit sales................................... -- -- -- -- iMac unit sales( )................................... , % , % , iBook unit sales..................................... -- -- -- ------ ------ ------ Total Macintosh unit sales......................... , % , % , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Unit sales figures for iMac include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. Net sales rose % total $ billion compared . The increase net sales resulted directly from % increase Macintosh unit sales. Driving unit sales growth was % increase combined unit sales the Company\' consumer and education Macintosh systems, iMac and iBook, and modest increase % combined units sales the Company\' professionally oriented Macintosh systems. Combined unit sales iMac and iBook systems accounted for % total Macintosh unit sales and % . This trend highlights the increasing importance the Company its consumer and education markets. During , the average revenue per Macintosh system, function total net sales generated hardware shipments and total Macintosh CPU unit sales, $ , was relatively unchanged from . This was due increased unit sales higher priced Power Mac, PowerBook, iBook, and Cube systems offset increases unit sales lower priced iMac systems. Additional comments regarding net sales for may found above under the heading "Fiscal Overview." Net sales increased $ million % $ billion compared . The primary source this growth was overall % increase Macintosh unit sales, which was reflective strong unit growth all the Company\' geographic operating segments. Offsetting the rise unit shipments during was decline the average revenue per Macintosh system which fell % $ , from $ , . The decline during the average revenue per Macintosh system was attributable lower pricing for both iMac and Power Mac products, which reflects the continuing overall industry trend towards lower pricing. The decline was also attributable the shift the Company\' unit mix toward lower-priced consumer products such that iMac units and comparable products comprised % total Macintosh unit sales versus % . Net sales declined sequentially during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter $ million %, and declined $ million % compared the same period . Similarly, Macintosh unit sales declined % and % during the fourth quarter compared the third quarter and the same period , respectively. The primary causes for these declines both net sales and unit sales were lower than planned deliveries PowerPC processors from Motorola and production interruptions vendors supplying PowerBooks and iBooks experienced during the last week the fourth quarter result the earthquake Taiwan September , . The shortage processors reduced Power Macintosh net sales approximately $ million during the fourth quarter . SEGMENT OPERATING PERFORMANCE The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' geographic segments include the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Japan segment includes only Japan, while the Asia Pacific segment includes Australia and Asia except for Japan. Each geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\' operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , "Segment Information and Geographic Data," which information hereby incorporated reference. AMERICAS Net sales and unit sales the Americas segment increased % and %, respectively, during compared . During , the Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\' total net sales and total Macintosh unit sales, respectively. The growth the Americas\' net sales was indicative strong growth unit sales iMac and iBook and relatively flat unit sales professionally oriented Macintosh systems. Net sales the Americas segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Americas between and . During , the Americas segment represented approximately % and % the Company\' total net sales and total Macintosh unit sales, respectively. The results experienced this segment reflect the overall trends experienced the Company during increasing Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. EUROPE Net sales the Europe segment increased % during driven % increase Macintosh unit sales. Growth unit sales resulted from % increase combined unit sales iMac and iBook, and increase % combined units sales the Company\' professionally oriented Macintosh systems. Net sales the Europe segment increased % $ billion during compared , while Macintosh unit sales increased %. This followed % decline net sales the Europe segment between and . Like the Americas segment, Europe\' results compared were indicative strong growth Macintosh unit sales offset declines the average revenue per Macintosh system. JAPAN AND ASIA PACIFIC Net sales the Japan segment increased % $ billion compared , while Japan\' Macintosh unit sales increased %. The fact that Japan\' net sales rose higher rate than its unit sales reflects several factors. First, iMac unit sales Japan were relatively flat year-over-year. Second, unit sales iBook, which generally carry higher price than iMac units and which were first sold Japan during , accounted for approximately % Japan\' total Macintosh unit sales during . Third, Japan saw % increase combined unit sales the Company\' professionally oriented Macintosh systems. The majority the increase both net sales and unit sales the Asia Pacific segment can attributed sales the Cube and iBook, both which were introduced the region during . Macintosh unit sales and net sales Asia, particularly Japan, recovered during from the declines experienced . Net sales the Japan segment increased % $ million total $ million compared . Macintosh unit sales Japan increased % during compared while Macintosh unit sales the Asia Pacific segment increased %. The increases net sales and Macintosh unit sales both Japan and Asia Pacific are the result strong iMac sales experienced these operating segments, strong growth Japanese consumer sales, and the general economic recovery experienced the region. BACKLOG the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions because over-ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found below under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. GROSS MARGIN Gross margin was relatively stable during compared , declining % during from % during . The half point decline primarily the result shift mix unit sales away from the Company\' higher priced, higher margin professionally oriented Macintosh systems towards its lower priced, lower margin consumer and education oriented Macintosh systems. Also contributing the relative stability its gross margin, the Company experienced relatively stable component pricing during compared . Gross margin increased percentage net sales during % compared % . This increase was primarily attributable declines the cost various components the Company\' products, improvements manufacturing efficiencies brought about selective outsourcing final assembly certain the Company\' products, improved design products leading lower manufacturing and warranty costs, and relatively stable pricing the Company\' products over the last six months . During , the Company was also able fully realize the benefits actions taken primarily and that led improved inventory management and more efficient distribution model for its products. There can assurance current gross margins will maintained, targeted gross margin levels will achieved, current margins existing individual products will maintained. general, gross margins and margins individual products will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\' product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these downward pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\' ability effectively manage quality problems and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. The Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account anticipated changes foreign currency exchange rates over time; however, the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations exchange rates. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company recognizes focused investments research and development are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\' core business strategy. Expenditures research and development increased % $ million $ million compared . This followed $ million % increase compared . Spending & has remained approximately % net sales during each the last three years. The overall increase & spending over the last two years directly related increases & headcount approximately % over that time support expanded product development efforts. SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE Selling, general, and administrative expenditures increased % $ , million compared and decreased % net sales from % . This increase total expenditures resulted from higher spending for promotional and marketing activities, increased sales expenses resulting from higher net sales, and % increase combined sales, marketing, and general and administrative headcount from the end the end . Selling, general, and administrative expenditures increased % $ million compared and increased % net sales from % . These increases are primarily the result increased spending marketing and promotional activities throughout and % increase combined sales, marketing, and general and administrative headcount from the end the end . SPECIAL CHARGES RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter reflects $ million excess reserves related prior restructuring actions. The $ million cost these actions was comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued. During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter . The charge was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees. EXECUTIVE BONUS During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ million, the majority which not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Net interest income increased $ million % $ million during compared . This increase attributable three principal factors. First, the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased $ million % during . Second, the weighted-average interest rate earned the Company its cash equivalents and short-term investments increased % the end compared % the end . The combination these first two factors increased interest income during $ million. Third, interest expense declined $ million during result the conversion approximately $ million the Company\' convertible subordinated notes common stock during the third quarter . During , the Company experienced $ million increase net interest income, primarily the result higher cash and investment balances, and decreased interest expense associated with the conversion the convertible subordinated notes during the third quarter . GAIN FROM SALE INVESTMENT The Company holds significant equity investment ARM Holdings plc (ARM), publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. September , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. During , the Company sold total million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. During , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % the shares held ARM that time for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million. The Company also recognized during other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. Further information related the Company\' investment ARM and gains recognized related that investment may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for presentation the Company\' balance sheet. This asset generally realizable based the ability offset existing deferred tax liabilities. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates principally the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. The Company\' effective tax rate for was % compared the higher statutory rate due primarily the reversal portion the previously established valuation allowance and certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes were provided. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS June , Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" was issued. SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires entity recognize all derivatives either assets liabilities the statement financial position and measure those instruments fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral the Effective Date FASB Statement . ," was issued. The statement deferred the effective date SFAS . until the first quarter fiscal . The Company will adopt SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," October , . Net the related income tax effect, the adoption SFAS . expected have favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million and favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income $ million. Management does not believe that adoption SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. December , the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , "Revenue Recognition Financial Statements." SAB , amended, summarizes certain the SEC\' views applying generally accepted accounting principles revenue recognition financial statements and provides guidance revenue recognition issues the absence authoritative literature addressing specific arrangement specific industry. The Company will adopt SAB the first quarter fiscal year . Adoption this guidance not expected have material impact the Company\' financial position results operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): -------- -------- -------- Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments.......... $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net.................................... $ $ $ Inventory................................................... $ $ $ Working capital............................................. $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable( )........................ Days supply inventory( ).............................. Operating cash flow......................................... $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ million % over the same balances the end . During , the Company\' primary source cash was $ million cash flows from operating activities. Cash generated operations was primarily from net income and increases accounts payable and other current liabilities partially offset increase accounts receivable. The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral against outstanding derivative positions. addition the net purchase short-term investments $ million, net cash used investing activities consisted primarily $ million for the purchase long-term investments, including $ million invested EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink) discussed below, and $ million for the purchase fixed assets. These uses cash were partially offset proceeds from sales ARM shares $ million. The Company currently expects capital expenditures increase approximately $ million during accommodate information systems enhancements and strategic initiatives. July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During , the Company repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Since inception the plan, the Company has repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. The Company believes its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient meet its cash requirements over the next twelve months, including any cash utilized its stock repurchase plan. However, given the Company\' current non-investment grade debt ratings (Standard and Poor\' Rating Agency and Moody\' Investor Services Ba2), the Company should need obtain short-term borrowings, there can assurance such borrowings could obtained favorable rates. The inability obtain such borrowings favorable rates could materially adversely affect the Company\' results operations, financial condition, and liquidity. NON-CURRENT DEBT AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS The Company holds significant investments ARM, Samsung Electronics ., Ltd, Akamai Technologies, Inc., and EarthLink. These investments are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income. The combined fair value these investments was $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. Further information related the Company\' non-current debt and equity investments may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. COMPETITION The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected industry wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\' existing products. Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target certain the Company\' key market segments, including consumer, education, and design and publishing. Additionally, several the Company\' competitors have introduced announced plans introduce products that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\' products. Many the Company\' competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources, well broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected overall demand for personal computers and general customer preferences for one platform over another one set product features over another. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing Microsoft Windows operating systems. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform order maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS AND TRANSITIONS Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies and enhance existing products order remain competitive. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the availability application software for new products, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. During , the Company plans introduce new client operating system, Mac , which will offer advanced functionality based Apple and NeXT software technologies. Inability successfully introduce Mac timely basis, gain customer acceptance, obtain the commitment developers transition existing applications run Mac , ensure adequate backward-compatibility Mac with applications authored for previous version the Mac , may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. INVENTORY AND SUPPLY The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees orders for inventories that have been canceled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer industry, assurance can given the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may again have, material effect the Company\' financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\' markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through purchase orders typically covering the Company\' requirements for periods from days. The Company\' operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\' ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. The Company ended with substantially more inventory its distribution channels than planned due the lower than expected sell-through the Company\' products during the fourth quarter. The Company currently anticipates significant sequential decline quarterly net sales during the first quarter fiscal , part due the Company\' plan reduce substantially the level inventory its distribution channels from the amounts the end fiscal more normal levels the end the first quarter. Many the Company\' products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the fixed cost operations, they also reduce the Company\' direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the ultimate consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\' future operating results and financial condition. Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components (including without limitation DRAM, TFT-LCD flat-panel displays, and optical and magnetic disk drives), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer industry also compete for various components with other industries (such the cellular phone and automotive industries) that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs). Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\' requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, , possible, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability and desire IBM and Motorola, the sole suppliers the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor for the Company\' Macintosh computers, provide the Company with sufficient supply microprocessors with price performance features that compare favorably those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, and other developers and producers microprocessors used personal computers using the Windows operating systems. Apple has been unable ship Macintosh systems with PowerPC microprocessors running above megahertz since such systems were first announced August due its microprocessor supplier\' inability provide the Company with faster microprocessors. Similar but less pronounced supply issues have also arisen with the Company\' supply faster PowerPC microprocessors. The Company believes that this inability obtain faster microprocessors had adverse impact the Company\' results operations during , particularly towards the end the fiscal year. The Company has been informed its suppliers that faster microprocessors will available sufficient quantity beginning the first half calendar . However, assurance can given that such faster microprocessors will actually available available sufficient quantities, and the inability the Company obtain faster microprocessors sufficient quantities during may have adverse impact the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Further discussion relating availability and supply components and product may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Raw Materials," and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note under the subheading "Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product," which information hereby incorporated reference. EDUCATION MARKET Several competitors the Company have either targeted announced their intention target the education market for personal computers. result, the Company\' overall share this market has declined. Additionally, net sales the Company\' education market fell short expectations approximately $ million during the fourth quarter , primarily result the Company\' transition more direct sales model from model heavily dependent third party sales agents. Although the Company has initiated plan strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase its share the education market maintain its existing share that market. Failure increase maintain market share the education market may have adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. addition, the Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets consumers, certain education customers, and certain resellers either directly through its -line stores around the world. Many the Company\' significant resellers operate narrow product margins, and may distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakened, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\' products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\' products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\' products. Further information regarding risks associated with Marketing and Distribution may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Markets and Distribution," which information hereby incorporated reference. GLOBAL MARKET RISKS large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. Historically, the Company\' primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non-dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\' products and the . dollar value the Company\' foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can effect the cost the Company product components, negatively impacting the Company\' results operations. Further information related the Company\' global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Foreign Currency Risk" and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements, which information hereby incorporated reference. SUPPORT FROM THIRD-PARTY SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS The Company believes that decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part third-party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger Windows market. This analysis based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, and the costs developing such software products. the extent the Company\' financial losses prior years and the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market, well the Company\' decision end its Mac licensing program, have caused software developers question the Company\' prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\' products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\' products. Moreover, the Company\' current plan introduce Mac during could cause software developers stop developing software for the current Mac , and there can assurance software developers will decide develop software for Mac timely basis all. August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, for period five years from August , and subject certain limitations related the number Macintosh computers sold the Company, Microsoft will make future versions its Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer products for the Mac . Although Microsoft has announced its intention , these agreements not require Microsoft produce future versions its products that are optimized run Mac . The Company will bundle the Internet Explorer product with Mac system software releases and make that product the default Internet browser for such Mac releases. While the Company believes its relationship with Microsoft has been and will continue beneficial the Company and its efforts increase the installed base for the Mac , the Microsoft relationship for limited term and does not cover many the areas which the Company competes with Microsoft, including the Windows platform. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Mac , including Mac , not covered the relationship following expiration the agreements may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests the vendor the Windows operating system. addition, the Microsoft relationship may have adverse effect , among other things, the Company\' relationship with other partners. There can assurance that the benefits the Company the Microsoft relationship will not offset the disadvantages. PATENTS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Many the Company\' products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\' products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. However, litigation has arisen out any these claims that has had, expected have, adverse impact the Company\' operating results and financial condition. The Company believes that any necessary patent other rights could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available acceptable terms, all, that the Company would prevail any such challenge. The failure obtain necessary licenses other rights, litigation arising out such claims, could adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. PRODUCT, GEOGRAPHIC, AND CHANNEL MIX The Company\' profit margins vary among its products, its geographic markets, and its distribution channels. result, the overall profitability the Company any given period will depend, part, the product, geographic, and channel mix reflected that period\' net sales. INTRA-QUARTER SALES CYCLE Apple generally sells more products during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer industry. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\' internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\' ability predict its financial results accurately. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\' products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\' key logistics components suppliers, can have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. DEPENDENCE KEY PERSONNEL Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where many the Company\' employees are located. There can assurance that the company will able successfully attract and retain the key personnel needs. Additionally, volatility lack positive performance the Company\' stock price may adversely affect its ability retain key employees. MINORITY INVESTMENTS The Company holds minority investments several public companies including Samsung Electronics ., Akamai Technologies, Inc., EarthLink, and ARM Holdings plc. The combined fair market value these investments was approximately $ million September , . The Company has categorized its investments these companies available-for-sale requiring the investments carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses net taxes reported component accumulated other comprehensive income. These investments are publicly traded companies whose share prices are subject significant volatility. While the overall financial impact these investments has been positive through the end , adverse changes general market conditions poor operating results the underlying companies could result the Company\' inability ultimately realize the gains associated with the carrying value these investments. Permanent impairment the value one all these investments could cause the Company recognize loss some portion its original $ million investment remaining these four companies. EURO TRANSITION January , , eleven the fifteen member countries the European Union adopted the Euro their common legal currency and established fixed conversion rates between their existing sovereign currencies and the Euro. The Euro now traded currency exchanges and available for non-cash transactions. The transition period for introduction the Euro ends January , . The Company has taken steps evaluate internal system capabilities, review the ability financial institution vendors support Euro transactions, and examine current marketing and pricing policies and strategies light the Euro conversion. Additionally, the Company has begun the process updating its internal systems and processes accommodate full transition the Euro the transaction and reporting currency for its affected European subsidiaries. The transition the Euro may have competitive implications the Company\' pricing and marketing strategies, the impact which are not known this time. Additionally, the Company risk the extent its principal European suppliers and customers are unable deal effectively with the impact the Euro transition. Adoption the Euro and the costs incurred prepare for that adoption are not expected have material adverse effect the Company\' results operations financial condition. However, there can assurance all issues related the Euro conversion have been identified that adoption issues identified will addressed properly timely basis. Failure properly identify and address issues associated with adoption the Euro could have material adverse affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. VOLATILITY STOCK PRICE The Company\' stock has experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. These factors, well general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price the Company\' common stock the future. OTHER FACTORS The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement that the Company provide consumers with the ability return the Company product the end its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. ', 'item 7a. ': "DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE AND FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the non-hedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, option and floor positions both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company' risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures intended hedge, there can assurance the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company' operating results and financial position. The Company will adopt SFAS . October , . Management does not believe that adoption the new accounting standard will significantly alter the Company' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. INTEREST RATE RISK While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world' leading industrialized countries, the Company' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company' exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company' investments and long-term debt obligations and related derivative financial instruments. The Company places its investments with high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company' general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. September , , substantially all the Company' investments have maturities less than months. During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . The following table presents the principal ( notional) amounts and related weighted-average interest rates for the Company' investment portfolio and its long-term debt obligations. The long-term debt comprised $ million unsecured notes described above, which mature February . The Company' . corporate securities include commercial paper, loan participations, certificates deposit, time deposits and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participation, certificates deposit and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company' cash equivalents and short-term investments have generally been held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and September , . millions, except weighted-average interest rates SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , -------------------- -------------------- WEIGHTED- WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE CARRYING INTEREST CARRYING INTEREST AMOUNT RATE AMOUNT RATE -------- --------- -------- --------- Assets: Cash equivalents: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ -- --% $ % . corporate securities.......................... % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total cash equivalents........................... , % , % ------ ------ Short-term investments: . Treasury and Agency securities................ $ % $ % . corporate securities.......................... , % % Foreign securities................................. % % ------ ------ Total short-term investments..................... , % , % ------ ------ Total investment securities.......................... $ , % $ , % ====== ====== Debt: Fixed rate........................................... $ % $ % ====== ====== During the last two years, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions order better match the Company' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company does not hold transact such financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. The interest rate swaps, which qualify accounting hedges, generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert portion the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date the asset swaps September with the remaining debt swaps maturing February . September , and September , , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and %, respectively. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , and September , , respectively. September , and September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and %, respectively; and weighted-average pay rates % and %, respectively. The unrealized gains and losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , and $ million September , . FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company' net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and availability appropriate hedging instruments. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current assets and liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and marked market through earnings. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company' products and purchases raw material, sub-assemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign risk management program, currently does not extend beyond six months. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. The following table provides information about the Company' foreign currency derivative financial instruments outstanding September , and September , . The information provided . dollar amounts, presented the Company' consolidated financial statements. For foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents the notional amount ( contract exchange rates) and the weighted-average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. Generally, all instruments mature within months. Miscellaneous other currencies consist primarily the Canadian and Australian dollars. ----------------------------- ----------------------------- WEIGHTED-AVERAGE WEIGHTED-AVERAGE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE NOTIONAL CONTRACT RATE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE AMOUNT STRIKE PRICE --------- ----------------- --------- ----------------- millions, except average contract rates and strike prices Foreign currency spot forward contracts: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total currency spot forward contracts....... $ , $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ $ ( ) ====== ====== Foreign currency purchased call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... -- -- -- Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ -- ------ ------ Total purchased call options............ $ $ ------ ------ Foreign currency purchased put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total purchased put options............. $ $ , ------ ------ Total foreign currency purchased options.... $ , $ , ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ $ ====== ====== Foreign currency sold call options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ $ British Pound Sterling.................... Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ ------ ------ Total sold call options................. $ $ ------ ------ Foreign currency sold put options: Japanese Yen.............................. $ -- -- British Pound Sterling.................... -- -- Euro...................................... Miscellaneous other currencies............ -- ------ ------ Total sold put options.................. $ ------ ------ Total foreign currency sold options......... $ , $ ====== ====== Estimated fair value........................ $ ( ) $ ( ) ====== ====== ", 'item 8. ': 'FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE - ------------------------------------------ -------- Financial Statements: Report Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP.................. Consolidated Balance Sheets September , , and September , ...................................... Consolidated Statements Operations for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , ............. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , .......................... Notes Consolidated Financial Statements................ Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)...... Financial Statement Schedule: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule --Valuation and qualifying accounts.......... REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . connection with our audits the consolidated financial statements, have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States America. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Also our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic consolidated financial statements taken whole, presents fairly, all material respects, the information set forth therein. KPMG LLP Mountain View, California October , CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS) SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------ ------------------ ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents................................. $ , $ , Short-term investments.................................... , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively............................................ Inventories............................................... Deferred tax assets....................................... Other current assets...................................... ------ ------ Total current assets.................................... , , Property, plant, and equipment, net....................... Non-current debt and equity investments................... Other assets.............................................. ------ ------ Total assets............................................ $ , $ , ====== ====== LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable.......................................... $ , $ Accrued expenses.......................................... ------ ------ Total current liabilities............................... , , Long-term debt.............................................. Deferred tax liabilities.................................... ------ ------ Total liabilities....................................... , , ------ ------ Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock, par value; , shares authorized, , and , issued and outstanding, respectively.................... Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively............................... , , Retained earnings......................................... , , Accumulated other comprehensive income.................... ------ ------ Total shareholders\' equity.............................. , , ------ ------ Total liabilities and shareholders\' equity.............. $ , $ , ====== ====== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- --------- Net sales................................................... $ , $ , $ , Cost sales............................................... , , , -------- -------- --------- Gross margin................................................ , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating expenses: Research and development.................................. Selling, general, and administrative...................... , Special charges: Executive bonus......................................... -- -- Restructuring costs..................................... -- -process research and development..................... -- -- -------- -------- --------- Total operating expenses.............................. , , , -------- -------- --------- Operating income............................................ Gains from sales investment.............................. Interest and other income, net.............................. -------- -------- --------- Total interest and other income, net........................ -------- -------- --------- Income before provision for income taxes.................... , Provision for income taxes.................................. -------- -------- --------- Net income.................................................. $ $ $ ======== ======== ========= Earnings per common share: Basic..................................................... $ $ $ Diluted................................................... $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic..................................................... , , , Diluted................................................... , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY ( MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS WHICH ARE THOUSANDS) ACCUMULATED PREFERRED STOCK COMMON STOCK OTHER TOTAL ------------------- ------------------- RETAINED COMPREHENSIVE SHAREHOLDERS\' SHARES AMOUNT SHARES AMOUNT EARNINGS INCOME (LOSS) EQUITY -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------------- ------------- Balances September , ......... $ , $ $ $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income............................ -- -- -- -- -- Foreign currency translation.......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------ Total comprehensive income.......... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans.................... -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the acquisition certain assets PCC................................... -- -- , -- -- Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options......... -- -- -- -- -- --- ---- ------- ------ ------ ----- ------ Balances September , ......... , ( ) , Components comprehensive income: Net income............................ Foreign currency translation.......... -- -- -- -- -- Unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax.............. -- -- -- -- -- Reclassification adjustment for gains available- for-sale securities included net income.............. -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------ Total comprehensive income.......... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans.................... -- -- , -- -- Common stock issued connection with the Company\' redemption long-term debt.................................. -- -- , -- -- Common stock repurchased................ -- -- ( , ) ( ) -- -- ( ) Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options......... -- -- -- -- -- --- ---- ------- ------ ------ ----- ------ Balances September , ......... , , , , Components comprehensive income: Net income............................ Foreign currency translation.......... -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) Unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax.............. -- -- -- -- -- Reclassification adjustment for gains available- for-sale securities included net income.............. -- -- -- -- -- ( ) ( ) ------ Total comprehensive income.......... Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans.................... -- -- , -- -- Conversion Series preferred stock................................. ( ) ( ) , -- -- -- Common stock repurchased................ -- -- ( , ) ( ) -- -- ( ) Tax benefit related disqualifying dispositions stock options......... -- -- -- -- -- --- ---- ------- ------ ------ ----- ------ Balances September , ......... $ , $ , $ , $ $ , === ==== ======= ====== ====== ===== ====== See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( MILLIONS) THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER , - ------------------------------------------- -------- -------- -------- Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year............ $ , $ , $ , ------ ------ ------ Operating: Net income.................................................. Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization............................. Provision for deferred income taxes....................... ( ) Loss sale property, plant, and equipment............ -- -- Gains from sales equity investment..................... ( ) ( ) ( ) -process research and development....................... -- -- Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable....................................... ( ) Inventories............................................... ( ) Other current assets...................................... ( ) ( ) Other assets.............................................. ( ) ( ) Accounts payable.......................................... Accrued restructuring costs............................... ( ) ( ) Other current liabilities................................. ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash generated operating activities.................. ------ ------ ------ Investing: Purchase short-term investments.......................... ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments.......... , , , Purchases long-term investments.......................... ( ) ( ) -- Proceeds from sale property, plant and equipment......... Purchase property, plant, and equipment.................. ( ) ( ) ( ) Proceeds from sales equity investment.................... Other....................................................... ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash used for investing activities...................... ( ) ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Financing: Decrease notes payable banks.......................... -- -- ( ) Proceeds from issuance common stock...................... Cash used for repurchase common stock.................... ( ) ( ) -- ------ ------ ------ Cash generated (used for) financing activities....... ( ) ------ ------ ------ Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents............ ( ) ( ) ------ ------ ------ Cash and cash equivalents, end the year.................. $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest.................... $ $ $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net................ $ $ $ ( ) Noncash transactions: Issuance common stock for redemption long-term debt.................................................. -- $ -- Issuance common stock for acquisition PCC assets................................................ -- -- $ Issuance common stock for conversion Series Preferred Stock....................................... $ -- -- See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Apple Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software and peripherals for sale primarily education, creative, consumer, and business customers. BASIS PRESENTATION AND PREPARATION The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. During the first quarter , the Company amended its -laws provide that beginning its fiscal year would end the last Saturday September rather than the last Friday. Likewise, beginning with the first fiscal quarter each the Company\' fiscal quarters now also end Saturday rather than Friday. Accordingly, one day was added the first quarter that the quarter ended Saturday, December , . These changes did not have material effect the Company\' revenue results operations for any quarter during fiscal . Fiscal years and , each -week years, both ended September 25th. Approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. Consequently, additional week was added the first quarter fiscal . All information presented herein based the Company\' fiscal calendar. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. INVESTMENTS All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. Investments with maturities greater than twelve months are classified long-term assets. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates such designation each balance sheet date. The Company\' debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\' equity. These unrealized gains losses include any unrealized losses and gains interest rate contracts accounted for hedges against the available-for-sale securities. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. The Company does not hold transact financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with its fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt, and diversify portion the Company\' exposure away from fluctuations short-term . interest rates. The Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended reduce the cost the interest rate risk management program. The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, and probable but not firmly committed transactions. Generally, the Company\' practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and availability appropriate hedging instruments. Foreign exchange forward contracts are carried fair value other current assets and liabilities. The premium costs purchased foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and amortized over the life the option. Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales the Company\' products and purchases raw material, subassemblies, and assembled finished goods currencies other than the functional currency. majority these transactions are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The Company purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge the currency exchange risks associated with these probable but not firmly committed transactions. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase these foreign exchange option contracts. The term the Company\' foreign exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions, probable but not firmly committed transactions, partially finance the foreign exchange risk management program currently does not extend beyond six months. addition, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts hedge certain intercompany loan transactions. These forward contracts effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into . dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company\' . dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. Interest rate and foreign exchange instruments generally qualify accounting hedges their maturity dates are the same the hedged transactions and the hedged transactions meet certain requirements. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions regular basis based applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event determined hedge ineffective, including and when the hedged transactions longer exist, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Gains and losses accounting hedges existing assets liabilities are generally recorded income shareholders\' equity against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. Gains and losses related qualifying accounting hedges firmly committed probable but not firmly committed transactions are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Gains and losses accounting hedges realized before the settlement date the related hedged transaction are also generally deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) Gains and losses interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not accounted for hedges are recorded income component interest and other income (expense), net. Sold interest rate and foreign exchange instruments not qualify accounting hedges. Premiums associated with sold foreign exchange option contracts are recorded other current assets and marked market through earnings. June , Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" was issued. SFAS . establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, hedging activities, and exposure definition. SFAS . requires entity recognize all derivatives either assets liabilities the statement financial position and measure those instruments fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must adjusted fair value through income. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. June , SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities--Deferral the Effective Date FASB Statement . ," was issued. The statement deferred the effective date SFAS . until the first quarter . The Company will adopt SFAS . , "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," October , . Net the related income tax effect, the adoption SFAS . expected have favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment net income approximately $ million and favorable cumulative-effect-type adjustment other comprehensive income $ million. Management does not believe that adoption SFAS . will significantly alter the Company\' hedging strategies. However, its application may increase the volatility other income and expense and other comprehensive income. INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the declining balance and straight-line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets, which are years for buildings, from years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms estimated useful lives for leasehold improvements. INTERNAL-USE SOFTWARE Software acquired developed for internal use stated cost and classified the balance sheet other assets. Depreciation computed straight-line basis using estimated useful life more than years. During fiscal year , the Company adopted the American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , "Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Developed Obtained for Internal Use." SOP - requires the capitalization certain internal costs incurred the acquisition development internal-use software. The adoption SOP - did not have material impact the Company\' consolidated results operations financial position during . September , and September , , the net carrying amount software was $ million and $ million, respectively. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) LONG-LIVED ASSETS The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount, including the unamortized portion any allocated goodwill, future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets, including any allocated goodwill, exceeds its fair market value. The recoverability enterprise level goodwill assessed whenever the facts and circumstances suggest the asset may impaired. The Company assesses the recoverability enterprise level goodwill determining whether the unamortized goodwill balance can recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. For the three years ended September , , the Company has made material adjustments its long-lived assets except those made connection with the restructuring actions described Note . FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Company translates the assets and liabilities its foreign sales subsidiaries year-end exchange rates. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged "accumulated translation adjustment" included "accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" shareholders\' equity. The Company\' foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other entities use the . dollar their functional currency and remeasure monetary assets and liabilities year-end exchange rates, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations are included the Company\' results operations and were not significant , . REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. Generally, these criteria are met the time product shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns, price protection, rebates, and other sales programs. December , the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) . , "Revenue Recognition Financial Statements." SAB , amended, summarizes certain the SEC\' views applying generally accepted accounting principles revenue recognition financial statements and provides guidance revenue recognition issues the absence authoritative literature addressing specific arrangement specific industry. The Company will adopt SAB the first quarter fiscal year . Adoption this guidance not expected have material impact the Company\' financial position results operations. WARRANTY EXPENSE The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. ADVERTISING COSTS Advertising costs are charged expense the first time the advertising takes place. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SUMMARY SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Software development costs are subject capitalization beginning when product\' technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for release customers. Generally, the Company\' products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. result, costs subsequent achieving technological feasibility have not been significant and all software development costs have been expensed. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company measures compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method and has provided Note pro forma disclosures the effect net income and earnings per share the fair value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect convertible securities reflected using the -converted method. STOCK SPLIT June , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split the form Common Stock dividend shareholders record May , . All per share data and numbers Common shares have been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\' equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\' other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency and from unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale. See Note for additional information regarding available-for-sale securities. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company reports segment information based the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\' reportable segments. Information about the Company\' products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company\' available-for-sale securities amortized cost, which approximates fair value, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments September , , and September , ( millions): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , AMORTIZED COST AMORTIZED COST ------------------ ------------------ . Treasury securities.................... $ -- $ . corporate securities................... Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included cash and cash equivalents............................. , , . Treasury securities.................... . corporate securities................... , Foreign securities.......................... ------ ------ Total included short-term investments............................. , , ------ ------ Total..................................... $ , $ , ====== ====== September , and September , , substantially all the Company\' investments had maturities less than twelve months. The Company\' . corporate securities include . Government Agency notes, certificates deposit, commercial paper and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities include foreign commercial paper, loan participations, time deposits and certificates deposit with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company\' cash equivalents and short-term investments are generally held until maturity. Gross unrealized gains and losses were negligible September , and September , . The Company\' cash and cash equivalent balances September , and September , include $ million and $ million, respectively, pledged primarily collateral against outstanding derivative positions. TRADE RECEIVABLES The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and directly certain education and consumer customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. However, when possible the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables through the use flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and credit insurance for certain customers Latin America and Asia. However, considerable trade receivables which are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\' distribution and retail channel partners. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions). SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------- NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK NOTIONAL FAIR CREDIT RISK PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS PRINCIPAL VALUE AMOUNTS --------- --------- ----------- --------- -------- ----------- Transactions qualifying accounting hedges: Interest rate instruments: Swaps....................................... $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ -- Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net................. $ $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Purchased options, net...................... $ $ $ -- $ , $ $ -- Transactions other than accounting hedges: Foreign exchange instruments: Spot Forward contracts, net................. $ $ -- $ -- $ $ ( ) $ -- Purchased options, net...................... $ , $ $ $ $ $ Sold options, net........................... $ , $ ( ) $ -- $ $( ) $ -- The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table above represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , and September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The interest rate swaps, which qualify accounting hedges, generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based the three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. These swaps effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate year debt floating-rate debt and convert the floating rate investments fixed rate. The maturity date the asset swaps September and the debt swaps mature February . September , and September , , interest rate debt swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and %, respectively. The weighted-average pay rate the debt swaps was % and % September , , and September , , respectively. September , and September , , interest rate asset swaps had weighted-average receive rate % and % respectively; and weighted-average pay rate % and %, respectively. The unrealized gains and NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) losses these swaps are deferred and recognized income component interest and other income (expense), net the same period the hedged transaction. Deferred losses such contracts totaled approximately $ million September , and $ million September , . The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net. The foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are also carried fair value other current assets and liabilities with gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transactions. September , , maturity dates for foreign exchange forward contracts held the Company ranged from one five months. the option contract designated and effective hedge firmly committed transaction, probable but not firmly committed transaction, then any gain loss deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such contracts were not significant September , , and September , . the option contract used hedge asset liability, then the option carried fair value other current liabilities with the gains and losses recorded currently income component interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses and gains the hedged transaction. September , , maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts and sold option contracts ranged from one five months. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the number agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' ten-year unsecured notes. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, which mature , the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. These agreements require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds are exceeded. The amounts held margin accounts were not significant September , . LONG-TERM DEBT UNSECURED NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes public offering registered with the SEC. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semiannually and mature February , . September , and September , , the carrying amount these notes was $ million, while the fair value was $ million and $ million, respectively. The fair value the notes based their listed market values September , and September , . CONVERTIBLE NOTES During , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the Notes) certain qualified parties private placement. The Notes were sold % par, paid interest semiannually, and matured June , not converted earlier. The Notes NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) were convertible their holders any time after September , , conversion price $ per share subject adjustments defined the Note agreement. Notes had been converted September , . The Notes were redeemable the Company % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , , and % the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve month period beginning June , . April , , the Company called for redemption the Notes. Not including approximately $ million unamortized debt issuance costs, debentures aggregate principal amount outstanding totaled approximately $ million March , . During the third quarter , debenture holders chose convert virtually all the outstanding debentures common stock rate $ per share resulting the issuance approximately million shares the Company\' common stock. NON-CURRENT DEBT AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND RELATED GAINS The Company holds significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Samsung Electronics ., Ltd (Samsung), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai) and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). These investments are reflected the consolidated balance sheets non-current debt and equity investments and have been categorized available-for-sale requiring that they carried fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported equity component accumulated other comprehensive income. All realized gains the sale these investments have been included other income. The combined fair value these investments was $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively. The Company believes likely there will continue significant fluctuations the fair value these investments the future. ARM HOLDINGS ARM publicly held company the United Kingdom involved the design and licensing high performance microprocessors and related technology. September , , the Company held approximately million shares ARM stock with fair value $ million. Share data for ARM presented this Form - has been adjusted reflect ARM\' four-for-one stock split April and its five-for-one stock split April . During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company holds million shares ARM stock valued $ million. During , the Company sold total approximately million shares ARM stock for net proceeds approximately $ million, recorded gain before taxes approximately $ million, and recognized related income tax approximately $ million. September , , the Company held million shares ARM stock valued $ million. September , , the Company owned % the outstanding stock ARM. The Company had accounted for this investment using the equity method through September , . April , , ARM completed initial public offering its stock the London Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ National Market. The Company sold % its shares the offering for gain before foreign taxes approximately $ million. Foreign tax recognized this gain was approximately $ million. the time equity method investee sells existing newly issued common stock unrelated parties excess its book value, the equity method requires the net book value the investment adjusted reflect the investor\' share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from the sale. the Company\' policy record adjustment reflecting its share the change the investee\' shareholders\' equity resulting from such sale gain loss other income. Consequently, the Company also NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) recognized the third quarter other income approximately $ million reflect its remaining % ownership interest the increased net book value ARM following its initial public offering. September , , the carrying value the Company\' investment ARM carried other assets the consolidated balance sheet was approximately $ million. October , , the Company sold million shares (split adjusted) ARM stock. result this sale, the Company\' ownership interest ARM fell %. Consequently, beginning the first quarter fiscal , the Company ceased accounting for its remaining investment ARM using the equity method and categorized its remaining shares available-for-sale. EARTHLINK January , the Company invested $ million EarthLink, Internet service provider (ISP). The investment EarthLink\' Series Convertible Preferred Stock, which convertible the Company after January , , into approximately million shares EarthLink common stock. Concurrent with this investment, EarthLink and the Company entered into multi-year agreement deliver ISP service Macintosh users the United States. Under the terms the agreement, the Company profits from each new Mac customer that subscribes EarthLink\' ISP service for specified period time, and EarthLink the default ISP Apple\' Internet Setup Software included with all Macintosh computers sold the United States. The fair value the Company\' investment EarthLink approximately $ million September , . SAMSUNG During the fourth quarter , the Company invested $ million Samsung assist the further expansion Samsung\' TFT-LCD flat-panel display production capacity. The investment, the form three year unsecured bonds, convertible into approximately , shares Samsung common stock beginning July . The bonds carry annual coupon rate % and pay total yield maturity % redeemed their maturity. The fair value the Company\' investment Samsung approximately $ million September , . AKAMAI June , the Company invested $ million Akamai, global Internet content delivery service. The investment was the form convertible preferred stock that converted into million shares Akamai common stock (adjusted for subsequent stock splits) the time Akamai\' initial public offering October . Beginning the first quarter , the Company categorized its shares Akamai available-for-sale. The fair value the Company\' investment Akamai approximately $ million September , . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT DETAILS ( MILLIONS) INVENTORIES -------- -------- Purchased parts............................................. $ $ Work process............................................. Finished goods.............................................. --- --- Total inventories........................................... $ $ === === PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT -------- -------- Land and buildings.......................................... $ $ Machinery and equipment..................................... Office furniture and equipment.............................. Leasehold improvements...................................... ----- ----- Accumulated depreciation and amortization................... ( ) ( ) ----- ----- Net property, plant, and equipment.......................... $ $ ===== ===== ACCRUED EXPENSES -------- -------- Accrued compensation and employee benefits.................. $ $ Accrued marketing and distribution.......................... Accrued warranty and related costs.......................... Other current liabilities................................... ---- ---- Total accrued expenses...................................... $ $ ==== ==== INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME, NET -------- -------- -------- Interest income......................................... $ $ $ Interest expense........................................ ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign currency gain (loss)............................ ( ) ( ) Net premiums and discounts foreign exchange instruments........................................... ( ) ( ) Other income (expense), net............................. ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS AND RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS the second quarter , the Company announced and began implement restructuring plan designed reduce costs and return the Company profitability. The restructuring plan was necessitated decreased demand for the Company\' products and the Company\' adoption new strategic direction. These actions resulted charge during $ million. During , the Company announced and began implement supplemental restructuring actions meet the foregoing objectives the plan. The Company recognized $ million charge during for the estimated incremental costs those actions. All material restructuring actions contemplated under the plan were essentially complete the end . The combined and restructuring actions consisted terminating approximately , full-time employees; canceling vacating certain facility leases result those employee terminations; writing down certain land, buildings, and equipment sold result downsizing operations and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts for projects and technologies that were not critical the Company\' core business strategy. The restructuring actions under the plan resulted cash expenditures $ million and noncash asset write-downs $ million from the second quarter through September , . the combined and restructuring charges $ million, approximately $ million was determined excess during the fourth quarter and was reversed. The Company expects the remaining accrual for payments canceled facility leases will result cash expenditures approximately $ million . The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September , , associated with the and restructuring actions described above ( millions): PAYMENTS EMPLOYEES PAYMENTS WRITE-DOWN PAYMENTS INVOLUNTARILY CANCELED FACILITY OPERATING ASSETS CANCELED TERMINATED ( ) LEASES ( ) SOLD ( ) CONTRACTS ( ) TOTAL -------------- ----------------- ---------------- ------------- -------- Balances September , ......................... $ $ $ $ $ Adjustments during ........ ( ) -- Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... -- Adjustments during ........ ( ) ( ) -- ( ) Spending during ........... ( ) ( ) -- ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... -- -- Adjustments during ........ -- -- -- -- -- Spending during ........... -- ( ) -- ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- Balances September , ......................... $ -- $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== ==== ==== ===== - ------------------------ ( ): Cash ( ): Noncash RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the fourth quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting charge operations $ million. The net restructuring charge $ million recognized during the fourth quarter NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SPECIAL CHARGES (CONTINUED) reflects $ million excess reserves related prior restructuring actions. The $ million cost these actions was comprised $ million for contract cancellation charges associated with the closure the Company\' outsourced data center, substantially all which had been spent the end the third quarter , and $ million for contract cancellation charges related supply and development agreements previously discontinued, substantially all which had been utilized the end the first quarter fiscal . During the second quarter , the Company took certain actions improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. These restructuring actions resulted the Company recognizing charge operations approximately $ million during the second quarter . The charge was comprised $ million for severance benefits paid employees involuntarily terminated, $ million for the write-down operating assets disposed , and $ million for payments canceled contracts. These actions resulted the termination approximately employees and were substantially completed September , . RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS During the first quarter , the Company initiated restructuring actions resulting recognition $ million restructuring charge. This charge was comprised $ million for the write-off various operating assets and $ million for severance payments approximately employees associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions. the $ million accrued for severance, $ million had been spent September , , and the remainder expected spent over the following two quarters. the $ million accrued for the write-off various assets, substantially all was utilized the end the second quarter . EXECUTIVE BONUS During the first quarter , the Company\' Board Directors approved special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft with total cost the company approximately $ million, the majority which not tax deductible. Approximately half the total charge the cost the aircraft. The other half represents all other costs and taxes associated with the bonus. This executive bonus has been presented outside selling, general, and administrative expenses special charge. TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION May , the Company acquired certain technology that was under development and had alternative future use. The acquisition resulted the recognition $ million purchased -process research and development, which was charged operations upon acquisition. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Federal: Current................................................. $ $ $-- Deferred................................................ -- ---- --- --- -- ---- --- --- State: Current................................................. -- -- -- Deferred................................................ -- ---- --- --- -- ---- --- --- Foreign: Current................................................. Deferred................................................ ( ) ( ) ---- --- --- ---- --- --- Provision for income taxes................................ $ $ $ ==== === === The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ , million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation repatriation the United States. The Company\' consolidated financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the United States. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) September , and September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): -------- -------- Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves................ $ $ Accrued liabilities and other reserves.................... Basis capital assets and investments................... Tax losses and credits.................................... ----- ---- Total deferred tax assets................................. Less valuation allowance.................................... ----- ---- Net deferred tax assets..................................... ----- ---- Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries....................... Available-for-sale securities............................. Other..................................................... ----- ---- Total deferred tax liabilities............................ ----- ---- Net deferred tax asset (liability).......................... $( ) $ ===== ==== September , , the Company had operating loss carryforwards for federal tax purposes approximately $ million, which expire . This does not include approximately $ million remaining operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT, which expire - , and the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The Company also has Federal credit carryforwards and various state and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards, the tax effect which approximately $ million and which expire between and . The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits tax losses that may not realized. The valuation allowance relates primarily the operating loss carryforwards acquired from NeXT. The net change the total valuation allowance was decrease $ million. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, will sufficient fully recover the remaining net deferred tax assets. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED) reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Computed expected tax.................................. $ $ $ State taxes, net federal effect..................... Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries......................................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation................... -- Change valuation allowance.......................... ( ) ( ) ( ) Other individually immaterial items.................... ( ) ( ) ---- ---- ---- Provision for income taxes............................. $ $ $ ==== ==== ==== Effective tax rate..................................... % % % The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made certain prepayments thereon. The Company contested the proposed deficiencies filing petitions with the United States Tax Court, and most the issues dispute have now been resolved. June , , the IRS proposed income tax adjustments for the years through . Although most the issues for these years have been resolved, certain issues still remain dispute and are being contested the Company. Management believes adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. NOTE --SHAREHOLDERS\' EQUITY STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN July , the Company\' Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. During , the Company repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. Since inception the plan, the Company has repurchased total million shares its common stock cost $ million. PREFERRED STOCK August , the Company and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) entered into patent cross licensing and technology agreements. addition, Microsoft purchased , shares Apple Series nonvoting convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock") for $ million. Upon any sale the preferred stock Microsoft, the shares will automatically converted into shares Apple common stock conversion price $ per share, and the shares can converted Microsoft\' option such price after August , . Each share preferred stock entitled receive, and when declared the Company\' Board Directors, dividend $ per share per annum, payable preference any dividend the Company\' common stock. Additionally, the dividends per share paid the common stock are greater than the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, then the Board Directors shall declare additional dividend such that the dividends per share paid the preferred stock " converted" basis, shall equal the dividends per share paid the common stock. September , , approximately , shares preferred stock were converted million shares the Company\' common stock. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS EXECUTIVE OFFICER STOCK PLAN The Company has effect Executive Officer Stock Plan (the Plan), which replaced the Stock Option Plan terminated April , the Stock Option Plan terminated October , and the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan terminated July . Options granted before these plans\' termination dates remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan the Chairman the Board Directors, executive officers the Company the level Senior Vice President and above, and other key employees. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the Plan), for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Options may granted under the Plan employees not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, and generally expire years after the grant date. total , , shares have been authorized for issuance under the Plan, which , , shares are reserved for future issuance September , . DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN August , the Company\' Board Directors approved Director Stock Option Plan (DSOP), for which directors the Company are eligible. Options granted under the DSOP vest three equal installments, each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. total , shares have been authorized for issuance under the DSOP, which , shares remain reserved for future issuance. Supplementally and separate from the DSOP, , options had been granted total two members the Company\' Board Directors, which , shares remain outstanding September , . EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end the six-month offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. During , , and , , , million and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED) matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY summary the Company\' stock option activity and related information for the years ended September , and September , and , follows (option amounts are presented thousands): YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , ------------------------- ------------------------- ------------------------- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- NUMBER WEIGHTED- AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE OPTIONS EXERCISE PRICE -------- -------------- -------- -------------- -------- -------------- Options outstanding--beginning year............................... , $ , $ , $ Granted............................ , $ , $ , $ Exercised.......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ Forfeited.......................... ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ------ ------ ------- Options outstanding--end year..... , $ , $ , $ ====== ====== ======= Options exercisable end year... , $ , $ , $ The options outstanding September , , have been segregated into five ranges for additional disclosure follows (option amounts are presented thousands): OPTIONS OUTSTANDING OPTIONS EXERCISABLE ----------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- WEIGHTED- OPTIONS AVERAGE WEIGHTED OPTIONS WEIGHTED OUTSTANDING REMAINING AVERAGE EXERCISABLE AVERAGE SEPTEMBER , CONTRACTUAL LIFE EXERCISE SEPTEMBER , EXERCISE YEARS PRICE PRICE ----------------- ---------------- -------- ----------------- -------- $ -$ ................... , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ , $ $ -$ .................. , $ $ $ -$ .................. , $ -- $ -- ------ ------ $ -$ ................... , $ , $ ====== ====== September , , approximately million options were reserved for future grant under the Company\' stock option plans. NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION The Company has elected follow Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . , "Accounting for Stock Issued Employees," and related interpretations accounting for its employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares because, discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS . requires use option valuation models that were not developed for use valuing employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\' employee stock options equals the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense recognized. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION (CONTINUED) Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) per share required SFAS . and has been determined the Company had accounted for its employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase plan purchases subsequent September , , under the fair value method that statement. The fair values for these options and stock purchases were estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted-average fair value per share options granted during includes the excess value the repriced options granted during the fiscal year less the value the related forfeited options the date the repriced options were granted. The assumptions used for each the last three fiscal years and the resulting estimate weighted-average fair value per share options granted during those years are follows: --------- --------- --------- Expected life options.................... years years years Expected life stock purchases............ months months months Interest rate--stock options................ % % % Interest rate--stock purchases.............. % % % Volatility--stock options................... % % % Volatility--stock purchases................. % % % Dividend yields............................. -- -- -- Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year................... $ $ $ The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use estimating the fair value traded options that have vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. addition, option valuation models require the input highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those traded options, and because changes the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, management\' opinion, the existing models not necessarily provide reliable single measure the fair value the Company\' employee stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares. For purposes pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value the options and shares are amortized pro forma net income over the options\' vesting period and the shares\' plan period. The Company\' pro forma information for each the last three fiscal years follows ( millions, except per share amounts): -------- -------- -------- Net income-- reported................................ $ $ $ Net income--pro forma.................................. $ $ $ Net income per common share-- reported Basic................................................ $ $ $ Diluted.............................................. $ $ $ Net income per common share--pro forma Basic................................................ $ $ $ Diluted.............................................. $ $ $ SFAS . applicable only options granted shares issued subsequent September , , its pro forma effect was not fully reflected until . NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES, AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS LEASE COMMITMENTS The Company leases various facilities, equipment, and data transmission capacity under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): FISCAL YEARS - ------------ ........................................................ $ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ ........................................................ Later years................................................. ---- Total minimum lease payments................................ $ ==== CONCENTRATIONS THE AVAILABLE SOURCES SUPPLY MATERIALS AND PRODUCT Although certain components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, ("ASICs")) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\' ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\' requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\' CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules and levels, the Company\' operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. LITIGATION The Company subject certain legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. The results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty; however, the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any legal proceedings and claims that would have material adverse effect its financial condition results operations. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES, AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. (MICROWAREHOUSE) January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\' reportable segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, and Japan. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The European segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\' subsidiary, Filemaker, Inc. Each reportable operating segment provides similar products and services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described the Summary Significant Accounting Policies Note . The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales and operating income. Operating income for each segment includes revenue, cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Net sales are based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the reportable segment. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses, income taxes, and nonrecurring charges for purchased -process research and development, restructuring, and acquisition related costs. Corporate expenses include research and development, manufacturing expenses not included segment cost sales, corporate marketing expenses, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) Summary information segment follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Americas: Net sales................................................. $ , $ , $ , Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets ( )........................................ $ $ $ Europe: Net sales................................................. $ , $ , $ , Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets............................................ $ $ $ Japan: Net sales................................................. $ , $ $ Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets............................................ $ $ $ Other segments: Net sales................................................. $ $ $ Operating income.......................................... $ $ $ Depreciation and amortization............................. $ $ $ Segment assets............................................ $ $ $ - -------------------------- ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the United States. Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. reconciliation the Company\' segment operating income, and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Segment operating income............................ $ , $ $ Corporate expenses, net............................. ( ) ( ) ( ) -process research and development................. -- -- ( ) Restructuring....................................... ( ) ( ) -- Executive bonus..................................... ( ) -- -- ------ ------ ------ Total operating income............................ $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== Segment assets...................................... $ , $ $ , Corporate assets.................................... $ , , , ------ ------ ------ Total assets...................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Segment depreciation and amortization............... $ $ $ Corporate depreciation and amortization............. ------ ------ ------ Total depreciation and amortization............... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA (CONTINUED) large portion the Company\' net sales derived from its international operations. Also, majority the raw materials used the Company\' products obtained from sources outside the United States, and majority the products sold the Company assembled internationally the Company\' facilities Cork, Ireland and Singapore third-part vendors Taiwan, Korea, Mexico, the People\' Republic China, and the Czech Republic. result, the Company subject risks associated with foreign operations, such obtaining governmental permits and approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability, labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes tariff and freight charges. During , single distributor, Ingram Micro Inc. accounted for approximately % the Company\' net sales. Net sales during Ingram Micro Inc. the Americas and Europe segments were $ million and $ million, respectively. Net sales Ingram Micro Inc. all other segments were $ million. other single customer accounted for more than % net sales . single customer accounted for more than % net sales . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the United States, Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net sales: United States....................................... $ , $ , $ , Japan............................................... , Other foreign countries............................. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== Long-Lived assets: United States....................................... $ $ $ Japan............................................... Other foreign countries............................. ------ ------ ------ Total long-lived assets........................... $ $ $ ====== ====== ====== Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): -------- -------- -------- Net sales: Power Macintosh..................................... $ , $ , $ , PowerBook........................................... Cube............................................. -- -- iMac ( )............................................ , , , iBook............................................... -- Software, service, and other net sales.............. , , , ------ ------ ------ Total net sales................................... $ , $ , $ , ====== ====== ====== - ------------------------ ( ) Net sales figures for iMac include sales the Company\' previous consumer and education oriented Macintosh products. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share ( thousands, except net income (loss) and per share amounts): SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , SEPTEMBER , FOR THE YEARS ENDED - ------------------- -------------- -------------- -------------- Numerator ( millions): Numerator for basic earnings per share--net income.................. $ $ $ Interest expense convertible debt............................... -- -------- -------- -------- Numerator for diluted earnings per share--adjusted net income......... $ $ $ -------- -------- -------- Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings per share--weighted-average shares outstanding........................ , , , Effect dilutive securities: Convertible preferred stock........ , , , Dilutive options................... , , , Convertible debt................... -- , , -------- -------- -------- Dilutive potential common shares..... , , , -------- -------- -------- Denominator for diluted earnings per share--adjusted weighted-average shares and assumed conversions..... , , , ======== ======== ======== Basic earnings per share............... $ $ $ ======== ======== ======== Diluted earnings per share............. $ $ $ ======== ======== ======== Options purchase million, million and million shares common stock were outstanding the end , , and respectively, that were not included the computation diluted earnings per share because the options\' exercise price was greater than the average market price the Company\' common shares for those years and, therefore, the effect would antidilutive. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) NOTE --SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) FOURTH QUARTER THIRD QUARTER SECOND QUARTER FIRST QUARTER -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- (TABULAR AMOUNTS MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Net sales................................ $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin............................. $ $ $ $ Net income............................... $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic.................................. $ $ $ $ Diluted................................ $ $ $ $ Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Gains before tax the sale ARM shares are recognized other income. Net income for the first quarter included net $ million restructuring charge for the write-off various operating assets and for severance payments associated with consolidation various domestic and international sales and marketing functions and $ million special executive bonus for the Company\' Chief Executive Officer for past services the form aircraft. Net income during the fourth, third, second, and first quarters included after tax gains resulting from the sale shares the Company\' investment ARM $ million, $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Gains before tax the sale ARM shares are recognized other income. Net income for the fourth quarter included net $ million restructuring charge for contract cancellation charges related previously outsourced services and previously discontinued business. Net income for the second quarter included $ million restructuring charge resulting from actions the Company improve the flexibility and efficiency its manufacturing operations, which included moving final assembly certain its products third-party manufacturers. SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( MILLIONS) CHARGED ALLOWANCE FOR BEGINNING COSTS AND ENDING DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS: BALANCE EXPENSES DEDUCTIONS( ) BALANCE - ------------------ --------- ---------- ------------- -------- Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ Year Ended September , ....................... $ $ $ $ - ------------------------ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT DIRECTORS Listed below are the Company\' directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. NAME POSITION WITH THE COMPANY AGE DIRECTOR SINCE - ---- ------------------------- -------- -------------- William . Campbell................. Director Gareth . Chang................... Director Millard . Drexler.................. Director Lawrence . Ellison................. Director Arthur . Levinson.................. Director Steven . Jobs...................... Director and Chief Executive Officer Jerome . York...................... Director WILLIAM . CAMPBELL has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("INTUIT") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation. GARETH . . CHANG the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board PingPong Technology. also the Executive Chairman Click2Asia com. Formerly, . Chang served Chairman and Chief Executive Officer STAR and Executive Director News Corporation. Prior joining STAR , . Chang was President Hughes Electronics International and President Direct International from . Previously, was Corporate Vice President McDonnell Douglas Corporation. currently member the Advisory Council Nike Inc. and serves the board SRS Labs Inc. MILLARD . DREXLER has been Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. since , and President since . . Drexler has been member the Board Directors Gap Inc. since November . also served the President the Gap Division from . LAWRENCE . ELLISON has been Chief Executive Officer and director Oracle Corporation ("ORACLE") since -founded Oracle May , and was President Oracle until June . . Ellison has been Chairman the Board Oracle since June . STEVEN . JOBS one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ("NEXT") and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. . Jobs currently director Gap Inc. ARTHUR . LEVINSON, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. ("GENENTECH") since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . JEROME . YORK Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micro Warehouse, Inc. Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director, MGM Mirage, Inc., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. and National TechTeam, Inc. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled "DIRECTORS". FRED . ANDERSON, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), position held from August March . TIMOTHY . COOK, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and interim Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Service & Support (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ("COMPAQ"). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. NANCY . HEINEN, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . RONALD . JOHNSON, Senior Vice President, New Business Development (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. JONATHAN RUBINSTEIN, Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. AVADIS TEVANIAN, ., ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. SINA TAMADDON, Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. SECTION ( ) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company, the absence Form , written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION INFORMATION REGARDING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the "NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS"). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE SECURITIES UNDERLYING ALL OTHER NAME AND FISCAL SALARY BONUS OPTIONS* COMPENSATION PRINCIPAL POSITION YEAR ($) ($) (#) ($) - ------------------ -------- -------- ---------- ------------ ------------ ANNUAL COMPENSATION LONG-TERM COMPENSATION Steven . Jobs................................ , , ( ) , , -- Chief Executive Officer -- -- -- -- -- -- Fred . Anderson.............................. , -- -- , ( ) Executive Vice President , -- , , ( ) and Chief Financial Officer , -- , ( ) , ( ) Ronald . Johnson............................. , , ( ) , , , ( ) Senior Vice President, -- -- -- New Business Development -- -- -- Mitchell Mandich.............................. , -- -- , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- , , ( ) Worldwide Sales( ) , -- , ( ) , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein........................... , -- -- , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- , , ( ) Hardware Engineering , -- , ( ) , ( ) - -------------------------- * Adjusted reflect the Company\' two-for-one stock split June ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for serving the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer for the past years without compensation, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . January , . Jobs accepted the position Chief Executive Officer the Company. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein, respectively, and canceled fiscal pursuant the December stock option exchange program. ( ) Includes $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) connection with his employment, . Johnson received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , . ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . ( ) Includes $ , from the disqualifying disposition shares Company stock acquired through the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR INDIVIDUAL GRANTS ------------------------------------------------------------- POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE NUMBER ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES STOCK SECURITIES PERCENT TOTAL PRICE APPRECIATION FOR OPTION UNDERLYING OPTIONS GRANTED EXERCISE TERM( ) OPTIONS EMPLOYEES BASE EXPIRATION ----------------------------- NAME GRANTED (#) FISCAL YEAR( ) PRICE ($/ )( ) DATE % ($) % ($) - ---- ----------- ---------------- --------------- ---------- ------------ -------------- Steven . Jobs........ , , % $ $ , , $ , , , Fred . Anderson...... -- -- -- -- -- -- Ronald . Johnson..... , , % $ $ , , $ , , Mitchell Mandich( )... -- -- -- -- -- -- Jonathan Rubinstein... -- -- -- -- -- -- - ------------------------ ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options granted fiscal year , including those granted . Johnson, typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. the options granted . Jobs, million options were immediately vested and exercisable the date grant; million vested July ; and the remaining million will vest July . ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . OPTIONS EXERCISED AND YEAR-END OPTION HOLDINGS The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES NUMBER SECURITIES UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED VALUE UNEXERCISED -THE- SHARES OPTIONS FISCAL YEAR-END MONEY OPTIONS FISCAL ACQUIRED VALUE (#) YEAR-END ($)( ) EXERCISE REALIZED ---------------------------- ---------------------------- NAME (#) ($)( ) EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE - ---- ----------- ----------- ------------ ------------- ------------ ------------- Steven . Jobs.......... -- -- , , ( ) , , $ , $ Fred . Anderson........ , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , Ronald . Johnson....... -- -- -- , , -- $ Mitchell Mandich( )..... , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein..... , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , - ------------------------ ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . DIRECTOR COMPENSATION , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the "DIRECTOR PLAN"). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ("INITIAL OPTIONS"). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ("ANNUAL OPTIONS"). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION Until April , the members the Compensation Committee were Messrs. Edgar . Woolard and Gareth . Chang. . Woolard retired from the Board Directors April and the Company ceased have active Compensation Committee. Since that time, the entire Board Directors has acted with respect matters previously considered the Compensation Committee. Neither Messrs. Woolard Chang were employees the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee fiscal year . During fiscal year , executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The following table sets forth certain information October , (the "TABLE DATE") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. SECURITY OWNERSHIP DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SHARES COMMON STOCK PERCENT NAME BENEFICIAL OWNER BENEFICIALLY OWNED( ) COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING - ------------------------ ---------------------- ------------------------ AIM Management Group............. , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs................... , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson................. , ( ) * William . Campbell.............. , ( ) * Gareth . . Chang............... , ( ) * Millard . Drexler............... , ( ) * Lawrence . Ellison.............. , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson................ * Arthur . Levinson............... , ( ) * Mitchell Mandich................. , ( ) * Jonathan Rubinstein.............. , ( ) * Jerome . York................... , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons)....................... , , % - ------------------------ ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F dated September , , filed AIM Management Group, Inc., Greenway Plaza, Suite , Houston, . The Form 13F filing for AIM Management Group, institutional investment advisor, also includes AIM Advisors, Inc., AIM Capital Management, Inc. and AIM Funds Management, Inc. Collectively, they are the beneficial owners , , shares % the Common Stock. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell, Chang, Ellison and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares which . Levinson holds indirectly. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Mandich has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. ITEM . ARRANGEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Company entered into employment agreement with . Anderson effective April , , pursuant which serves Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company. Pursuant his agreement, . Anderson entitled annual base salary less than $ , . . Anderson\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" any time during the five-year period following April , , will entitled receive lump sum severance payment equal the sum his annual base salary and target bonus, any. . Anderson\' agreement generally defines "Cause" include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his employment duties. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--STOCK OPTIONS the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted Fred . Anderson, Timothy . Cook, Nancy . Heinen, Mitchell Mandich, Sina Tamaddon, Jonathan Rubinstein and Avadis Tevanian provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS connection with the Company\' use aircraft transport its executive officers, the Company paid approximately $ , during fiscal year Wing & Prayer, company wholly-owned Lawrence . Ellison. connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, New Business Development) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lessor ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. ("MICROWAREHOUSE") January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. REPORT THE BOARD DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Until April , the members the Compensation Committee were Messrs. Edgar . Woolard and Gareth . Chang. . Woolard retired from the Board Directors April and the Company ceased have active Compensation Committee. result, the Company\' executive compensation program presently administered the Board. The Board reviews and approves the base salaries, bonuses, stock options and other compensation the executive officers and management-level employees the Company and administers the Company\' stock option plans. . Jobs who both member the Board and the Company\' Chief Executive Officer, does not participate deliberations the Board concerning executive compensation. The Company\' executive compensation program focuses Company performance, individual performance and increases stockholder value over time determinants executive pay levels. These principles are intended motivate executive officers improve the financial position the Company, hold executives accountable for the performance the organizations for which they are responsible, attract key executives into the service the Company, and create value for the Company\' shareholders. The compensation for executive officers based two elements: Cash compensation and equity-based compensation. CASH COMPENSATION The Company reviews executive compensation surveys both the computer industry and general industry ensure that the total cash compensation provided executive officers and senior management remains competitive levels that the Company can continue attract and retain management personnel with the talents and skills required meet the challenges highly competitive industry. The compensation executive officers reviewed annually. BONUSES For fiscal year , the Board established FY00 Vice Presidents and Directors Incentive Bonus Plan (the "BONUS PLAN"), under which cash bonuses for employees the level director and above were determined based specified revenue, unit shipments and profit targets for the Company. Because the Company achieved the metrics specified the Bonus Plan, payments were made thereunder. Executive officers and members the Board were not eligible participate the Bonus Plan and received other bonuses for fiscal year . EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION fiscal year , the Board emphasized equity-based compensation, principally the form options, the cornerstone the Company\' executive compensation program. Equity awards are typically set the Board based industry surveys, each officer\' individual performance and achievements, market factors and the recommendations management. fiscal year , executive officers were eligible receive grants stock options under the Executive Officer Stock Plan (" PLAN"). addition, executive officers were eligible participate the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During fiscal year , options were granted under the Plan Messrs. Jobs, Johnson, and Tamaddon and . Heinen. The options granted under the Plan were exercise price equal the fair market value the Common Stock the date grant and generally vest increments over four-year period after grant, subject the participant\' continued employment with the Company. However, the options granted . Jobs will vest full July . All options granted under the Plan expire ten years from the date grant, unless shorter term provided the option agreement the participant\' employment with the Company terminates before the end such ten-year period. COMPENSATION THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December , recognition . Jobs\' outstanding performance over the previous two and half years, the Board awarded . Jobs special executive bonus the form Gulfstream airplane. The Board anticipates delivering the plane . Jobs during fiscal . January , . Jobs accepted the position Chief Executive Officer, which had previously held interim basis. The Board that time granted . Jobs million options under the Plan. . Jobs will continue receive salary $ per year for the services performs the Company\' Chief Executive Officer. SECTION ( ) The Company intends that options granted under the Company\' stock option plans deductible the Company under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code , amended. MEMBERS THE BOARD DIRECTORS (EXCLUDING . JOBS) William . Campbell Gareth . Chang Millard . Drexler Lawrence . Ellison Arthur . Levinson Jerome . York PART ITEM . EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - dated January , , report under Item (Other Events) that the Company\' Board Directors had granted the Company\' CEO, Steven . Jobs, stock options purchase twenty million shares (split adjusted) the Apple common stock and give . Jobs Gulfstream airplane recognition his service the Company during the preceding two and half years. ( ) Exhibits EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - --------------------- ------ DESCRIPTION Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - ------- ------ DESCRIPTION Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. 97K Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 97K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through May , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K-10A ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan. - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - ------- ------ DESCRIPTION ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION 97K** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubenstein. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through June , . ** Director Stock Option Plan ** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through June , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 97K Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent KPMG LLP. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement NOTES ----- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and - , - , , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement - Form - (file . - ) filed October , . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . NOTES ----- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 99K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 13th day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- / / STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and ------------------------------------------- Director (Principal December , STEVEN . JOBS Executive Officer) Executive Vice President / / FRED . ANDERSON and Chief Financial ------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal December , FRED . ANDERSON Financial Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL ------------------------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG ------------------------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / MILLARD . DREXLER ------------------------------------------- Director December , MILLARD . DREXLER / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON ------------------------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ------------------------------------------- Director December , ARTHUR . LEVINSON / / JEROME . YORK ------------------------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT DIRECTORS Listed below are the Company\' directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. NAME POSITION WITH THE COMPANY AGE DIRECTOR SINCE - ---- ------------------------- -------- -------------- William . Campbell................. Director Gareth . Chang................... Director Millard . Drexler.................. Director Lawrence . Ellison................. Director Arthur . Levinson.................. Director Steven . Jobs...................... Director and Chief Executive Officer Jerome . York...................... Director WILLIAM . CAMPBELL has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ("INTUIT") since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the board directors SanDisk Corporation. GARETH . . CHANG the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board PingPong Technology. also the Executive Chairman Click2Asia com. Formerly, . Chang served Chairman and Chief Executive Officer STAR and Executive Director News Corporation. Prior joining STAR , . Chang was President Hughes Electronics International and President Direct International from . Previously, was Corporate Vice President McDonnell Douglas Corporation. currently member the Advisory Council Nike Inc. and serves the board SRS Labs Inc. MILLARD . DREXLER has been Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. since , and President since . . Drexler has been member the Board Directors Gap Inc. since November . also served the President the Gap Division from . LAWRENCE . ELLISON has been Chief Executive Officer and director Oracle Corporation ("ORACLE") since -founded Oracle May , and was President Oracle until June . . Ellison has been Chairman the Board Oracle since June . STEVEN . JOBS one the Company\' -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pixar Animation Studios. addition, . Jobs -founded NeXT Software, Inc. ("NEXT") and served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer NeXT from until when NeXT was acquired the Company. . Jobs currently director Gap Inc. ARTHUR . LEVINSON, . has been President, Chief Executive Officer and director Genentech Inc. ("GENENTECH") since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . JEROME . YORK Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micro Warehouse, Inc. Previously, was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation from September October . May , joined International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and served director IBM from January August . Prior joining IBM, . York served number executive positions Chrysler Corporation, including Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May May . also served director Chrysler Corporation from . . York also director, MGM Mirage, Inc., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. and National TechTeam, Inc. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled "DIRECTORS". FRED . ANDERSON, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company April . Prior joining the Company, . Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), position held from August March . TIMOTHY . COOK, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and interim Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Service & Support (age ), joined the Company February . Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation ("COMPAQ"). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. NANCY . HEINEN, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company September . Prior joining the Company, . Heinen held the position Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary the Board Directors NeXT from February until the acquisition NeXT the Company February . RONALD . JOHNSON, Senior Vice President, New Business Development (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. JONATHAN RUBINSTEIN, Senior Vice President, Hardware Engineering (age ), joined the Company February . Before joining the Company, . Rubinstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer FirePower Systems Incorporated, from May August . . Rubinstein also serves member the Board Directors Immersion Corporation. AVADIS TEVANIAN, ., ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\' acquisition NeXT. With NeXT, . Tevanian held several positions, including Vice President, Engineering, from April February . Prior April , . Tevanian worked engineer with NeXT and held several management positions. SINA TAMADDON, Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. SECTION ( ) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\' officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\' equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company, the absence Form , written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that, during fiscal year , its officers, directors and greater than ten percent beneficial owners complied with all applicable Section ( ) filing requirements. ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION INFORMATION REGARDING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the "NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS"). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE SECURITIES UNDERLYING ALL OTHER NAME AND FISCAL SALARY BONUS OPTIONS* COMPENSATION PRINCIPAL POSITION YEAR ($) ($) (#) ($) - ------------------ -------- -------- ---------- ------------ ------------ ANNUAL COMPENSATION LONG-TERM COMPENSATION Steven . Jobs................................ , , ( ) , , -- Chief Executive Officer -- -- -- -- -- -- Fred . Anderson.............................. , -- -- , ( ) Executive Vice President , -- , , ( ) and Chief Financial Officer , -- , ( ) , ( ) Ronald . Johnson............................. , , ( ) , , , ( ) Senior Vice President, -- -- -- New Business Development -- -- -- Mitchell Mandich.............................. , -- -- , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- , , ( ) Worldwide Sales( ) , -- , ( ) , ( ) Jonathan Rubinstein........................... , -- -- , ( ) Senior Vice President, , -- , , ( ) Hardware Engineering , -- , ( ) , ( ) - -------------------------- * Adjusted reflect the Company\' two-for-one stock split June ( ) December , . Jobs was given special executive bonus for serving the Company\' interim Chief Executive Officer for the past years without compensation, the form aircraft with total cost the Company approximately $ , , . January , . Jobs accepted the position Chief Executive Officer the Company. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) Includes the replacement , , , and , options that were previously granted Messrs. Anderson, Mandich and Rubinstein, respectively, and canceled fiscal pursuant the December stock option exchange program. ( ) Includes $ , relocation assistance and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. ( ) connection with his employment, . Johnson received one-time hiring bonus the amount $ , . ( ) Consists $ , relocation assistance. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . ( ) Includes $ , from the disqualifying disposition shares Company stock acquired through the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan and $ , matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR The following table provides information about option grants the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . OPTION GRANTS LAST FISCAL YEAR INDIVIDUAL GRANTS ------------------------------------------------------------- POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE NUMBER ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES STOCK SECURITIES PERCENT TOTAL PRICE APPRECIATION FOR OPTION UNDERLYING OPTIONS GRANTED EXERCISE TERM( ) OPTIONS EMPLOYEES BASE EXPIRATION ----------------------------- NAME GRANTED (#) FISCAL YEAR( ) PRICE ($/ )( ) DATE % ($) % ($) - ---- ----------- ---------------- --------------- ---------- ------------ -------------- Steven . Jobs........ , , % $ $ , , $ , , , Fred . Anderson...... -- -- -- -- -- -- Ronald . Johnson..... , , % $ $ , , $ , , Mitchell Mandich( )... -- -- -- -- -- -- Jonathan Rubinstein... -- -- -- -- -- -- - ------------------------ ( ) Based aggregate , , options granted all employees during fiscal year . Options granted fiscal year , including those granted . Johnson, typically vest four equal annual installments commencing the first anniversary the date grant. the options granted . Jobs, million options were immediately vested and exercisable the date grant; million vested July ; and the remaining million will vest July . ( ) All options were granted exercise price equal the fair market value based the closing market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market the date grant. ( ) Potential gains are net exercise price, but before taxes associated with exercise. These amounts represent certain assumed rates appreciation only, based SEC rules, and not represent the Company\' estimate projection the price the Company\' stock the future. Actual gains, any, stock option exercises depend upon the actual future price Common Stock and the continued employment the option holders throughout the vesting period. Accordingly, the potential realizable values set forth this table may not achieved. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . OPTIONS EXERCISED AND YEAR-END OPTION HOLDINGS The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES NUMBER SECURITIES UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED VALUE UNEXERCISED -THE- SHARES OPTIONS FISCAL YEAR-END MONEY OPTIONS FISCAL ACQUIRED VALUE (#) YEAR-END ($)( ) EXERCISE REALIZED ---------------------------- ---------------------------- NAME (#) ($)( ) EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE EXERCISABLE UNEXERCISABLE - ---- ----------- ----------- ------------ ------------- ------------ ------------- Steven . Jobs.......... -- -- , , ( ) , , $ , $ Fred . Anderson........ , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , Ronald . Johnson....... -- -- -- , , -- $ Mitchell Mandich( )..... , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , Jonathan Rubinstein..... , $ , , , , , $ , , $ , , - ------------------------ ( ) Market value underlying securities (based the fair market value Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market) the time exercise, minus the exercise price. ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the Nasdaq National Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Includes , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) . Mandich resigned from his position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales October , . DIRECTOR COMPENSATION , the Company ended its practice paying cash retainers and fees directors, and approved the Apple Computer, Inc. Director Stock Option Plan (the "DIRECTOR PLAN"). The Director Plan was approved the shareholders April and , shares have been reserved for issuance under the Director Plan. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\' non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board ("INITIAL OPTIONS"). the fourth anniversary non-employee director\' initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock ("ANNUAL OPTIONS"). Initial Options vest and become exercisable equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the date grant. Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION Until April , the members the Compensation Committee were Messrs. Edgar . Woolard and Gareth . Chang. . Woolard retired from the Board Directors April and the Company ceased have active Compensation Committee. Since that time, the entire Board Directors has acted with respect matters previously considered the Compensation Committee. Neither Messrs. Woolard Chang were employees the Company. person who was employee the Company fiscal year served the Compensation Committee fiscal year . During fiscal year , executive officer the Company ( ) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, ( ) served director another entity, one whose executive officers served the Company\' Compensation Committee, (iii) served member the compensation committee ( other board committee performing similar functions , the absence any such committee, the board directors) another entity, one whose executive officers served director the Company. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The following table sets forth certain information October , (the "TABLE DATE") with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\' Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. SECURITY OWNERSHIP DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SHARES COMMON STOCK PERCENT NAME BENEFICIAL OWNER BENEFICIALLY OWNED( ) COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING - ------------------------ ---------------------- ------------------------ AIM Management Group............. , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs................... , , ( ) % Fred . Anderson................. , ( ) * William . Campbell.............. , ( ) * Gareth . . Chang............... , ( ) * Millard . Drexler............... , ( ) * Lawrence . Ellison.............. , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson................ * Arthur . Levinson............... , ( ) * Mitchell Mandich................. , ( ) * Jonathan Rubinstein.............. , ( ) * Jerome . York................... , ( ) * All executive officers and directors group ( persons)....................... , , % - ------------------------ ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. ( ) Based Form 13F dated September , , filed AIM Management Group, Inc., Greenway Plaza, Suite , Houston, . The Form 13F filing for AIM Management Group, institutional investment advisor, also includes AIM Advisors, Inc., AIM Capital Management, Inc. and AIM Funds Management, Inc. Collectively, they are the beneficial owners , , shares % the Common Stock. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock which . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Anderson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which Messrs. Campbell, Chang, Ellison and York each have the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares which . Levinson holds indirectly. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Mandich has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock which . Rubinstein has the right acquire exercise stock options. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. ', 'item 13. ': 'ARRANGEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS WITH NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Company entered into employment agreement with . Anderson effective April , , pursuant which serves Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the Company. Pursuant his agreement, . Anderson entitled annual base salary less than $ , . . Anderson\' employment terminated the Company without "Cause" any time during the five-year period following April , , will entitled receive lump sum severance payment equal the sum his annual base salary and target bonus, any. . Anderson\' agreement generally defines "Cause" include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his employment duties. CHANGE CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS--STOCK OPTIONS the event "change control" the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\' stock option plans, except the Director Plan, will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become exercisable full, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon "change control" the Company, all unvested options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully vested and exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable "change control price" and the exercise price the options. "change control" under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\' outstanding securities ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. addition, options granted Fred . Anderson, Timothy . Cook, Nancy . Heinen, Mitchell Mandich, Sina Tamaddon, Jonathan Rubinstein and Avadis Tevanian provide that the event there "change control", defined the Company\' stock option plans, and connection with following such "change control", their employment terminated without "Cause" they should resign for "Good Reason", those options outstanding that are not yet vested and exercisable the date such "change control" shall become fully vested and exercisable. Generally, "Cause" defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. "Good Reason" includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS connection with the Company\' use aircraft transport its executive officers, the Company paid approximately $ , during fiscal year Wing & Prayer, company wholly-owned Lawrence . Ellison. connection with relocation assistance package, the Company loaned . Johnson (Senior Vice President, New Business Development) $ , , for the purchase his principal residence. The loan secured deed trust and due and payable May . Under the terms the loan, . Johnson agreed that should exercise any his stock options prior the due date the loan, that would pay the Company amount equal the lessor ( ) amount equal % the total net gain realized from the exercise the options; ( ) $ , multiplied the number years between the exercise date and the date the loan. The largest amount the indebtedness outstanding this loan during fiscal year was $ , , . . Jerome York, member the Board the Directors the Company, member investment group that purchased MicroWarehouse, Inc. ("MICROWAREHOUSE") January . also serves its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. MicroWarehouse multi-billion dollar specialty catalog and online retailer and direct marketer computer products, including products made the Company, through its MacWarehouse catalogue. During fiscal year , MicroWarehouse accounted for % the Company\' net sales. REPORT THE BOARD DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Until April , the members the Compensation Committee were Messrs. Edgar . Woolard and Gareth . Chang. . Woolard retired from the Board Directors April and the Company ceased have active Compensation Committee. result, the Company\' executive compensation program presently administered the Board. The Board reviews and approves the base salaries, bonuses, stock options and other compensation the executive officers and management-level employees the Company and administers the Company\' stock option plans. . Jobs who both member the Board and the Company\' Chief Executive Officer, does not participate deliberations the Board concerning executive compensation. The Company\' executive compensation program focuses Company performance, individual performance and increases stockholder value over time determinants executive pay levels. These principles are intended motivate executive officers improve the financial position the Company, hold executives accountable for the performance the organizations for which they are responsible, attract key executives into the service the Company, and create value for the Company\' shareholders. The compensation for executive officers based two elements: Cash compensation and equity-based compensation. CASH COMPENSATION The Company reviews executive compensation surveys both the computer industry and general industry ensure that the total cash compensation provided executive officers and senior management remains competitive levels that the Company can continue attract and retain management personnel with the talents and skills required meet the challenges highly competitive industry. The compensation executive officers reviewed annually. BONUSES For fiscal year , the Board established FY00 Vice Presidents and Directors Incentive Bonus Plan (the "BONUS PLAN"), under which cash bonuses for employees the level director and above were determined based specified revenue, unit shipments and profit targets for the Company. Because the Company achieved the metrics specified the Bonus Plan, payments were made thereunder. Executive officers and members the Board were not eligible participate the Bonus Plan and received other bonuses for fiscal year . EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION fiscal year , the Board emphasized equity-based compensation, principally the form options, the cornerstone the Company\' executive compensation program. Equity awards are typically set the Board based industry surveys, each officer\' individual performance and achievements, market factors and the recommendations management. fiscal year , executive officers were eligible receive grants stock options under the Executive Officer Stock Plan (" PLAN"). addition, executive officers were eligible participate the Company\' Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During fiscal year , options were granted under the Plan Messrs. Jobs, Johnson, and Tamaddon and . Heinen. The options granted under the Plan were exercise price equal the fair market value the Common Stock the date grant and generally vest increments over four-year period after grant, subject the participant\' continued employment with the Company. However, the options granted . Jobs will vest full July . All options granted under the Plan expire ten years from the date grant, unless shorter term provided the option agreement the participant\' employment with the Company terminates before the end such ten-year period. COMPENSATION THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December , recognition . Jobs\' outstanding performance over the previous two and half years, the Board awarded . Jobs special executive bonus the form Gulfstream airplane. The Board anticipates delivering the plane . Jobs during fiscal . January , . Jobs accepted the position Chief Executive Officer, which had previously held interim basis. The Board that time granted . Jobs million options under the Plan. . Jobs will continue receive salary $ per year for the services performs the Company\' Chief Executive Officer. SECTION ( ) The Company intends that options granted under the Company\' stock option plans deductible the Company under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code , amended. MEMBERS THE BOARD DIRECTORS (EXCLUDING . JOBS) William . Campbell Gareth . Chang Millard . Drexler Lawrence . Ellison Arthur . Levinson Jerome . York PART ', 'item 14. ': 'EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS FORM - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedule The financial statement schedule the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - The Company filed current report Form - dated January , , report under Item (Other Events) that the Company\' Board Directors had granted the Company\' CEO, Steven . Jobs, stock options purchase twenty million shares (split adjusted) the Apple common stock and give . Jobs Gulfstream airplane recognition his service the Company during the preceding two and half years. ( ) Exhibits EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - --------------------- ------ DESCRIPTION Agreement and Plan Merger Among Apple Computer, Inc., Blackbird Acquisition Corporation and NeXT Software, Inc., dated December , - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. - Indenture, dated June , , between the Company and Marine Midland Bank, Trustee, relating the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , . - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - ------- ------ DESCRIPTION Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). - Form the % Convertible Subordinated Notes due June , included Exhibit . Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. - Specimen Certificate Common Stock Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , .). Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Notes due . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. 97K Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer Inc. 97K Registration Rights Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . 97K** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through May , . ** Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan. 91K** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - 93K-10A ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan. - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* - ------- ------ DESCRIPTION ** Summary Principal Terms Employment between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. - ** Amendment Employment Agreement, dated May , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Gilbert . Amelio. ** Employment Agreement dated February , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Employment Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Retention Agreement dated March , , between Registrant and Fred . Anderson, . ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Registrant and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated April , , between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Robert . Calderoni. ** Employment Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and Ellen . Hancock. ** Retention Agreement dated June , , between Registrant and George . Scalise. ** Airplane Use Agreement dated June , , among Registrant, Gilbert . Amelio and Aero Ventures. 96K** Employment Agreement effective June , , between Registrant and . Frederick Forsyth. ** Employment Agreement effective December , , between Registrant and John . Douglas III. ** Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan, amended through March , . ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. ** Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. ** Retention Agreement dated May , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Fred . Anderson. - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. EXHIBIT NUMBER NOTES* ------- ------ DESCRIPTION 97K** Resignation Agreement dated September , between Registrant and Gilbert . Amelio. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Jon Rubenstein. 97K** Retention Agreement dated May , between Registrant and Avie Tevanian. ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through June , . ** Director Stock Option Plan ** Executive Officer Stock Plan, amended through June , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Restructuring Agreement dated December , , among Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and International Business Machines Corporation. Stock Purchase Agreement dated April , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May , between Registrant and SCI Systems, Inc. 97K Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August , , between Apple Computer, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent KPMG LLP. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule - ------------------------ * Explanatory notes Item . appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement NOTES ----- 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . - - , Incorporated reference the exhibit , , , and - , - , , respectively, the Company\' Registration Statement - Form - (file . - ) filed October , . 96K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 97K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . NOTES ----- Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 99K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedule See Item ( )( ) this Form - . SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 13th day December . APPLE COMPUTER, INC. : / / FRED . ANDERSON ----------------------------------------- Fred . Anderson EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Steven . Jobs and Fred . Anderson, jointly and severally, his attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Annual Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: NAME TITLE DATE ---- ----- ---- / / STEVEN . JOBS Chief Executive Officer and ------------------------------------------- Director (Principal December , STEVEN . JOBS Executive Officer) Executive Vice President / / FRED . ANDERSON and Chief Financial ------------------------------------------- Officer (Principal December , FRED . ANDERSON Financial Officer) / / WILLIAM . CAMPBELL ------------------------------------------- Director December , WILLIAM . CAMPBELL / / GARETH . CHANG ------------------------------------------- Director December , GARETH . CHANG / / MILLARD . DREXLER ------------------------------------------- Director December , MILLARD . DREXLER / / LAWRENCE . ELLISON ------------------------------------------- Director December , LAWRENCE . ELLISON / / ARTHUR . LEVINSON ------------------------------------------- Director December , ARTHUR . LEVINSON / / JEROME . YORK ------------------------------------------- Director December , JEROME . YORK ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}