{'item 1. ': 'Business Item . Properties Item . Legal Proceedings Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders PART Item . Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Item . Executive Compensation Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item . Controls and Procedures PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - Signatures PAGEBREAK link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Business" Item . Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97 \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Forward-Looking Statements.\x94 General Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. and our sellers list millions unique new, used and collectible items categories such apparel and accessories, electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs, zShops and Auctions, any business individual can sell virtually anything Amazon com\x92 millions customers. operate six global Web sites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . also own and operate the Internet Movie Database www imdb com (\x93IMDb\x94), which comprehensive and authoritative source information movie and entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb Pro, subscription service designed for the entertainment industry. Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Business Strategy seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online. have designed our Web sites allow millions new, used and collectible products sold and other businesses and individuals worldwide. product our Web sites may listed for sale simultaneously several different sellers. For instance, product may offered , participant our Merchants@ program and business individual selling new, used collectible version the product through Amazon Marketplace, zShops Auctions. also offer certain -commerce services other businesses through our Merchant com and Syndicated Stores programs. Lowering Prices endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. strive improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs that can afford pass along these savings our customers the form lower prices. believe this strategy lowering prices will, over time, increase unit growth and lead further efficiencies. PAGEBREAK Amazon com Retail are the seller record our Web sites for broad range new products, including electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, software, computer and video games, cell phones, tools and hardware and outdoor living items. purchase these products from vendors and fulfill them either through our fulfillment centers through outsourced fulfillment providers. Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace Programs Our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs allow other businesses and individuals offer their new, used and collectible products for sale our Web sites. Their products are fully integrated our Web sites and are purchased customers through single checkout process. are not the seller record these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. also sometimes offer fulfillment-related services under this program. Examples our Merchants@ program include our apparel store www amazon com , which offers more than brands, well the Toysrus com, Babiesrus com and Target stores www amazon com . Amazon Marketplace available www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . addition, other businesses and individuals can auction products through our Auction sites and offer products individual specialty stores through our zShops sites. Merchant com Program Through our Merchant com program utilize our -commerce services, features and technologies operate another business\x92 Web site and sell its products under its brand name and URL ( example www target com ). also offer fulfillment-related services through our Merchant com program. are not the seller record, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Syndicated Stores Program Through our Syndicated Stores program, utilize our -commerce services, features and technologies sell our products through another business\x92 Web site using another business\x92 name and URL. Under these arrangements, are the seller record and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service. The other business earns sales commission the products sold. Examples include www cdnow com, www virginmega com, www virginmega , www borders com, www waldenbooks com and www waterstones , among others. Operating Segments Beginning , organized our operations into four principal segments: North America Books, Music and DVD/ Video (\x93BMVD\x94); North America Electronics, Tools and Kitchen (\x93ETK\x94); International; and Services. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements \x97 Note \x97 Segment Information\x94 for additional information regarding our segments. BMVD Segment. This segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through our Syndicated Stores program. Our BMVD segment had net sales $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. , launched our Canada-focused Web site www amazon and launched Syndicated Stores www cdnow com and www waldenbooks com . addition, added -store pickup PAGEBREAK our www borders com Syndicated Store and added over , magazine, newspaper and newsletter titles our Magazine store www amazon com . ETK Segment. This segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through our Syndicated Stores program. Our ETK segment had net sales $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. During , launched our Office Depot store www amazon com . International Segment. This segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and product revenues from stores offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Our International segment had net sales $ billion, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon each launched Amazon Marketplace. addition, the Syndicated Store www virginmega was launched, and www amazon launched magazine and periodicals store. Services Segment. This segment consists commissions, fees and other amounts earned from our services business, including our Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such our apparel store, the Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com , well our commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The Services segment had net sales $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. , launched our apparel store which now has more than popular brands clothing, shoes and accessories offered our Merchants@ program participants. addition, launched www target com under our Merchant com program. Amazon com Web Sites Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing feature-rich content, secure and trusted transaction environment and easy- -use functionality. Our Web sites offer broad selection, low prices, availability, convenience, discovery and fulfillment. Key features include product reviews and other information, Web pages tailored individual customers\x92 preferences, including recommendations and notifications, -Click® technology, secure payment systems, browsing, searching and the ability view selected interior pages over , books with our \x93Look Inside the Book\x94 feature. Our community online users creates feature-rich content, including product reviews and online lists, such wish lists, wedding registries and baby registries desired products and services that others can reference for gift-giving purposes and Listmania lists with accompanying commentary regarding favorite products. PAGEBREAK Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy designed strengthen and broaden the Amazon com brand name, increase customer traffic our Web sites, encourage customers shop many product categories, promote repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. First and foremost, our best marketing efforts are focused improving the customer experience, which drives word- -mouth promotion and repeat customer visits. also deliver personalized Web pages and services and employ variety media, business development activities and promotional methods achieve these goals. benefit from public relations activities and from time time employ various means online and traditional advertising, including -mail, radio, television and print media and direct marketing. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors. direct customers our Web sites through our Associates program, which enables associated Web sites make our products available their audiences with fulfillment performed . Currently, over , Web sites have enrolled our Associates program. addition, offer everyday free shipping option www amazon com for certain orders that exceed specific amount, and offer similar options for our internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses not include our free and reduced shipping offers, view such offers effective marketing tool. Customer Service believe that our ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength our customer service operations, and continually seek improve the Amazon com customer service experience. Customers can use the \x93your-account\x94 website features track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery information and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options and return items. addition these and similar online self-service features, users can contact customer service representatives hours day, seven days week. have automated certain tools used our customer service staff and have plans for further enhancements. currently have customer service personnel working six customer service centers located Tacoma, Washington; Grand Forks, North Dakota; Huntington, West Virginia; Slough, the United Kingdom; Regensburg, Germany; and Sapporo, Japan. addition, have customer-service cosourcing arrangements with certain vendors India, Northern Ireland and the . Fulfillment currently lease and operate . fulfillment facilities New Castle, Delaware; Coffeyville, Kansas; Campbellsville and Lexington, Kentucky; Fernley, Nevada; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. also lease and operate three European fulfillment centers that are located Marston Gate, the United Kingdom; Orleans, France; and Bad Hersfeld, Germany. Japan, Nippon Express, leading courier company, provides fulfillment services for orders from www. mazon under cosourcing arrangement; and Canada, Assured Logistics, affiliate Canada Post, provides outsourced fulfillment services for orders from www amazon . aggregate basis, these fulfillment centers (including the facilities that are leased Nippon Express and Assured Logistics) comprise approximately million square feet warehouse space. addition, currently lease six off-site facilities totaling approximately million square feet space, which support the storage and fulfillment functions our . fulfillment centers. Our fulfillment centers facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. addition, fulfill certain orders through outsourced fulfillment providers. Seasonality Our business generally affected both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage (which generally declines during summer months) and traditional retail seasonality. Traditional retail sales for most our products (including books, music, DVDs, videos, toys and electronics, among others) usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. particular note the fourth quarter seasonal PAGEBREAK effect our sales toys (which are mainly sold through our Merchants@ program relationship with Toysrus com) and electronics. Technology have implemented numerous Web-site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination our own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current strategy focus our development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business and license acquire commercially-developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability and track the progress each order. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Competition The retail environment for our products generally intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, catalog retailers, publishers, distributors and manufacturers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing; ( ) other online -commerce sites; ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers; and ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including Web-site developers and third-party fulfillment and customer-service providers. believe that the principal competitive factors our market segments include selection, price, availability, convenience, information, discovery, brand recognition, personalized services, accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and ability adapt changing conditions. For services offer business and individual sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality our services and tools and speed performance for our services. the market segments which operate continue grow, other companies may also enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered number domain names and been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights . and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights the . and internationally, and have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technologies copyrighted materials, third parties. Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. also employ independent contractors and temporary personnel seasonal basis. None our employees PAGEBREAK represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry intense, particularly for software-development and other technical staff. believe that our future success will depend part our continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com . make available this website under \x93Financial Documents and Annual Reports,\x94 free charge, our annual reports Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - and amendments those reports soon reasonably practicable after electronically file furnish such materials the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could materially adversely affected. Have Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ billion and our stockholders\x92 equity was deficit $ billion. have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception, and may continue incur such losses for the foreseeable future. Have Significant Indebtedness December , , had total long-term indebtedness under our % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93Senior Discount Notes\x94), convertible notes, capitalized-lease obligations and other asset financings $ billion. make annual semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our two tranches convertible notes, which are due and , respectively. Beginning November , will begin make semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes the future; plan for, react , changes technology and our business and competition; and react the event economic downturn. There guarantee that will able meet our debt service obligations. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with covenants our indebtedness, will default. Face Intense Competition The market segments which compete are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including both the retail and -commerce services industries. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors both the retail and -commerce services industries also may able devote more resources technology development and marketing than . Competition the -commerce channel may intensify. Other companies the retail and -commerce service industries may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive PAGEBREAK positions. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may expand into the market segments which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature online retail. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, both. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances and other business relationships with other companies. have entered into agreements provide -commerce services other businesses and plan enter into similar agreements the future. Under such agreements, may perform services such : providing our technology services such search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and initially require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may constrain the number such agreements are able enter into and may affect our ability deliver services under the relevant agreements. fail implement, maintain and develop successfully the various components such arrangements, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing and licensing third party software, hardware and content, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. Therefore, the other business\x92 Web site product services offering not successful, may not receive all the compensation are otherwise due under the agreement may not able maintain the agreement. Moreover, may not able succeed our plans enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. our commercial agreements expire otherwise terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. Some our agreements involve high margin services, such marketing and promotional agreements, and such agreements expire they may replaced, all, agreements involving lower margin services. addition, several past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable meet their obligations . may the future enter into further amendments these agreements encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. addition, our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, joint ventures, investments and business combinations create risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and companies with which have formed strategic alliances; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending terminating such agreements relationships; \x95 difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel combined companies; \x95 problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; and \x95 additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses. PAGEBREAK Our Investments and the Consideration Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Number Risks the past, have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances where perform certain -commerce services, and exchange for our services received cash, equity securities these companies, and additional benefits, such Web site traffic. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales made the other company. some cases, have also made separate investments the other company making cash payment exchange for equity securities that company. may the future make additional investments companies with which already have commercial agreements companies with which enter into new commercial agreements similar arrangements. the extent have received equity securities compensation, fluctuations the value such securities will affect our ultimate realization amounts have received compensation for services. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing revenue recognition these recorded unearned amounts has been changed correspond with the terms the amended agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Our investments equity securities that are not accounted for under the equity method are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 and \x93Other equity investments\x94 our balance sheets. regularly review all our investments public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines fair value. When determine that the decline fair value investment below our accounting basis other-than-temporary, reduce the carrying value the securities hold and record loss the amount any such decline. recent years, securities companies the Internet and -commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. may conclude future quarters that the fair values other these investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline. December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments,\x94 which less than $ million was accounted for under the equity-method. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the fourth quarter our fiscal year. not stock popular products sufficient amounts and fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. may experience decline our shipping margins due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. too many customers access our Web sites within short period time due increased holiday other demand, may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services our customers may unable meet the PAGEBREAK seasonal demand. Finally, , along with our customer service outsourcers, may unable adequately staff customer service centers. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result decline the amount cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities hand. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Rate Growth Due our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability our industry, may not able accurately forecast our rate growth. base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans estimates future net sales and rate growth. Our expenses and investments are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our net sales fall short our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions throughout the world. softening demand, whether caused changes consumer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth. Such attacks and security concerns could create delays and increase the cost product shipments and from , which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability expand our network sellers, and enter into, maintain, renew and amend favorable terms our strategic alliances; \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 our ability acquire merchandise, manage inventory and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction our competitors Web sites, products services; \x95 changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and -commerce; \x95 timing and costs upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the effects strategic alliances, acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability successfully integrate them into our business; \x95 technical difficulties, system downtime interruptions; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 disruptions service shipping carriers; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping promotions; and PAGEBREAK \x95 increase the prices fuel and gasoline, which are used the transportation packages, well increase the prices other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, which are used our operating facilities. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales almost all our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations the financial results the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into . Dollars upon consolidation. exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. addition, our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) are denominated Euros, not . Dollars. When periodically remeasure the principal the % PEACS based fluctuations the Euro/ . Dollar exchange ratio, will record non-cash gains losses \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 our statements operations. Furthermore, have invested some the proceeds from the % PEACS Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities. Accordingly, the . Dollar strengthens compared the Euro, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Past and Planned Future Growth Will Place Significant Strain our Management, Operational and Financial Resources have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will endeavor expand further pursue growth our product and service offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue place significant strain our management, operational and financial resources. also need train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. addition, not expect benefit our newer market segments from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book channel. Our gross profits our newer business activities may lower than our older business activities. addition, may have limited experience new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. the extent pursue strategic alliances facilitate new product service activities, the alliances may not successful. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and negatively affect revenue growth. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack Integration and Redundancy Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access our Web sites directly affects the volume goods sell and the services offer and thus affects our net sales. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. prevent system PAGEBREAK interruptions, continually need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate both increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, would make our product offerings less attractive our customers and our service offerings less attractive third parties. While have backup systems for certain aspects our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage insurance limits compensate for losses from major interruption. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments plan, over time, continue expand our reach international market segments. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized Web sites, stores and other systems. may not succeed these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not profitable sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject number risks inherent selling abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); \x95 import export licensing requirements; \x95 limitations the repatriation funds; \x95 difficulty obtaining distribution and support; \x95 nationalization; \x95 longer receivable cycles; \x95 consumer protection laws and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower level adoption use the Internet and other technologies vital our business and the lack appropriate infrastructure support widespread Internet usage; \x95 lower level credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty developing and simultaneously managing larger number unique foreign operations result distance, language and cultural differences; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; \x95 tax and other laws the . and other jurisdictions; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel continues grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and PAGEBREAK focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand name recognition. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate -commerce other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation distribution. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international market segments. Face Significant Inventory Risk are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, particularly difficult forecast product demand accurately. failure optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make split shipments from one more locations, complimentary upgrades and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery. result our Merchants@ program relationships with Toysrus com, Babiesrus com, Target and other companies, these parties identify, buy, manage and bear the financial risk inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. result, any these parties fail forecast product demand optimize inventory, would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could harmed. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently ship completed orders customers may negatively affected number factors, including dependence limited number shipping companies, inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism acts God. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. Because difficult predict sales volume, may not manage our facilities optimal way, which may result excess insufficient inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. addition, third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality and future procurement their services. Finally, under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability failure these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, PAGEBREAK copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use our proprietary rights inherently difficult, and may not able determine the existence extent any such unauthorized use. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, cannot certain that the steps take protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms which are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. Have Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have relatively short operating history and, -commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : \x95 general economic conditions; \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 new products, services, innovations and strategic developments our competitors , business combinations and investments our competitors ; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes Internet regulation; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 additions departures key personnel; \x95 corporate restructurings, including layoffs closures facilities; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce companies; and PAGEBREAK \x95 news and securities analyst reports and speculation relating new and existing commercial agreements, general business Internet trends our existing future products services. Any these events may cause our stock price rise fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Future volatility our stock price could force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options. This option exchange offer resulted variable accounting treatment for certain our stock options. Variable accounting treatment will result unpredictable stock-based compensation expense dependent fluctuations quoted prices for our common stock. late , implemented restricted stock unit plan, which will our primary vehicle for employee stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price the common stock, which will recognized compensation expense ratably over the corresponding employee service term. Government Regulation the Internet and -commerce Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and -commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, the provision online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and -commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate \x93auctions\x94 and \x93auctioneers\x94 and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops and certain aspects Amazon Marketplace. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. May Subject Liability for Past Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease accordance with current industry practice, not collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments most our goods into states other than Washington and North Dakota. Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record the applicable merchandise and are obligated collect sales tax most states accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. collect Value Added Tax, VAT, for products that are ordered www amazon , www amazon and www amazon and delivered European Union member countries. also collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Japan. addition, Canadian consumption taxes are collected sales products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies which engage -commerce. successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions the . Supreme Court restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit supersede the PAGEBREAK Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. any these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court\x92 constitutional concerns and resulted reversal its current position, could required collect sales and use taxes states other than Washington and North Dakota. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for and could decrease our future sales. Various countries are currently evaluating their VAT positions -commerce transactions. Recently, for example, the European Union (\x93 \x94) enacted directive requiring that businesses non- countries selling digital products and services resident consumers collect and remit VAT the country the consumer\x92 residence. This directive will become effective July , , will result additional VAT collection obligations and administrative burdens and may decrease our future sales customers the . Future VAT legislation changes our business model may have similar impacts. Source Significant Portion Our Inventory from Few Vendors Although continue increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, still source significant amount inventory from relatively few vendors. During , purchased over % all inventory purchases from single vendor, Ingram Book Group. other vendors account for over %. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current vendors were stop selling merchandise acceptable terms, may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some our products, such toys, tools, hardware, computers, cell phones, and kitchen and houseware products, may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death property damage caused such products, and may require take actions such product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also may sell products that may indirectly increase our exposure product liability claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our suppliers not indemnify from product liability. Could Liable for Breaches Security Our Web Site and Fraudulent Activities Users Our Amazon Payments Program fundamental requirement for -commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the provision online payment services and could require changes the way this business conducted. guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and may unable prevent users Amazon Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not made seller fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not shipped buyer. Our liability risk will increase larger fraction our sellers use Amazon Payments. Any costs incur result liability because our guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality Amazon Payments depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, Amazon Payments will not viable (and our businesses that use Amazon Payments may not viable). PAGEBREAK May Not Able Adapt Quickly Enough Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology the -commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet Medium for Commerce Uncertain Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce recent phenomenon and subject high level uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. use the Internet medium for commerce does not continue grow grows slower rate than anticipate, our sales would lower than expected and our business would harmed. Could Liable for Unlawful Fraudulent Activities Users Our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops Services may unable prevent users our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner. may face civil criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities our users under . laws and the laws and regulations other countries. addition, are unsuccessful preventing our users from providing content that either illegal which violates the proprietary rights others, may result liability . Any costs incur result liability relating the sale unlawful goods, the unlawful sale goods, the fraudulent receipt goods the fraudulent collection payments could harm our business. running our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services, rely sellers make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and buyers pay the agreed purchase price. not take responsibility for delivery payment goods and, while can suspend terminate the accounts users who fail fulfill their delivery obligations, cannot require users make payments deliver goods. not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded other users except through our guarantee program. Under our guarantee program, fraudulent activities our users, such the fraudulent receipt goods and the fraudulent collection payments, may create liability for . PAGEBREAK Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors January , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Richard . Dalzell Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software and Chief Information Officer Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and again from October the present. Richard . Dalzell. . Dalzell has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November . From October until November , . Dalzell was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer and prior that, from joining Amazon com August until October , was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Mark . Peek. . Peek has served Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since July . From November July , served Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April November , served Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November . From joining Amazon com February until November , . Piacentini was Senior Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\x92 operations Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November . Previously, . Szkutak held variety positions General Electric ., including Chief Financial Officer Lighting from September September , Finance Director Plastics Europe from March September , and Executive Vice President \x97 Finance Asset Management (formerly known Investments) from May March . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service, since January . From October until January , . Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior that had been Vice President and General Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon com September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit PAGEBREAK from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary since March . She served Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from July until March . . Wilson joined Amazon com March Associate General Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance. Prior joining Amazon com, she was partner the law firm Perkins Coie LLP. Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director Madrona Venture Group . John Doerr General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Mark . Hansen Chairman and CEO Fleming Companies, Inc. Thomas . Ryder Chairman and CEO Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer President and -Chair the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation link2 "Item . Properties" Item . Properties not own any real estate. Our principal office facilities the . are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire various times through July . Our corporate office facilities (excluding customer service office space) the . comprise total , square feet. Additionally, have , square feet office space that subleased vacant that remain obligated under lease agreements that expire various times through April . Our . warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed six fulfillment centers located New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Lexington and Campbellsville, Kentucky; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These fulfillment centers comprise total approximately million square feet. Our fulfillment center leases expire from through . also lease six facilities located near our fulfillment centers, comprising approximately million square feet, which use for off-site storage and shipping. These offsite storage and shipping facilities are under relatively short-term lease agreements that expire various times through May ; following expiration, intend renew certain these leases consolidate into new offsite facilities, both. Our . customer service operations occupy approximately , square feet office space and are located Tacoma, Washington; Huntington, West Virginia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. The lease terms these facilities expire January , April and November , respectively. Our data-center facilities have , combined square feet (including approximately , square feet vacant space one facility). These facilities are under leases that expire from through . lease additional properties outside the ., including approximately , square feet corporate office space (excluding customer service office space) Germany, France, Japan and the United Kingdom (which excludes approximately , square feet vacant office space Germany); approximately , combined square feet available fulfillment center space Germany, France and the United Kingdom (which excludes approximately , square feet our United Kingdom facility that currently subleased marketed for sublease); and approximately , combined square feet customer service space Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom. The fulfillment centers Germany, PAGEBREAK the United Kingdom and France are located Bad Hersfeld, Marston Gate and Orleans, respectively, and the lease terms expire December , October and March , respectively. January , closed our fulfillment centers McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington. Our lease for the Seattle facility, which covers approximately , square feet ( portion which currently subleased) will expire April . recently negotiated termination agreement for our McDonough facility lease that accelerated the termination date December for portion the building and March for the remainder the building (contingent our payment the final termination fee). December , , the lease for our McDonough facility covered approximately , square feet. believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present and anticipated near term needs. link2 "Item . Legal Proceedings" Item . Legal Proceedings April , , received request from the SEC staff for the voluntary production documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales our common stock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, February and , . are cooperating with the SEC staff\x92 continuing inquiry. number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). October , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors and certain third parties, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through July , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. August , , the Trustee for the Creditors\x92 Trust for Living com instituted adversary proceeding against subsidiary the Company the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District Texas. The plaintiff alleges that Living com\x92 creditors are entitled contractual recovery approximately $ million fees that Living com had previously paid primarily issuing Living com stock the Company. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against the Company and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The Complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law unjust enrichment. The Complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest and declaratory relief. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, future results operations, financial position cash flows particular period. From time time, are subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual PAGEBREAK property rights. currently are not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believe will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect our business, financial condition operating results. link2 "Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders" Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our stockholders during the fourth quarter . link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Market for the Registrant&# ; Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters" Item . Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders January , , there were , stockholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, are restricted from paying cash dividends under our Senior Discount Notes. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. link2 "Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data" Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained herein Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis PAGEBREAK Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. and for the Years Ended December , ( ) ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted net loss per share( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted net loss per share( ) , , , , , Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Marketable securities , , , , , Total assets , , , , , , , , , Long-term debt , , , , , , , , , Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) ( , , ) ( , , ) ( , ) , , ( ) Reflects restatement for business acquisition accounted for under the pooling- -interests method. ( ) For further discussion loss per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 and \x93\x97 Note \x97 Earnings (Loss) Per Share.\x94 link2 "Item . Management&# ; Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations future pro forma profitability, net sales, cash flows from operations and free cash flows, all which are inherently difficult predict. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, the rate growth the economy general, the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, the amount that invest new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, risks inventory management, the degree which enter into, maintain and develop relationships with other businesses, fluctuations the value securities and non-cash payments receive connection with such transactions, foreign exchange risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , PAGEBREAK \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Results Operations Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments conditions. Significant Accounting Policies Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost market value, which requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition (whether through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations), and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, which applied consistently from period period, record valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. Revenue Recognition generally recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable and collectibility reasonably assured. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , \x93Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent,\x94 determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary obligor transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier (commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point\x94). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns) are estimated using historical experience. PAGEBREAK periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage discounts off current purchases (\x93current discount offers\x94), offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase (\x93inducement offers\x94) and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction and are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Commissions received through our Amazon Marketplace and Merchants@ programs and amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recorded net amounts since are acting agent. Amounts earned are recognized net sales when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. earn revenues from services primarily entering into business- -business commercial agreements, including providing our technology services such search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. compensation for the services provide under these agreements, generally receive cash. the past, have accepted compensation under these arrangements equity securities, combination equity securities and cash. Generally, the fair value the equity consideration received measured when the agreement executed, but the extent that the equity consideration subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon execution the agreement, the fair value the equity consideration and corresponding revenue determined the date that the forfeiture provision lapses the vesting provision lapses. Subsequent initial measurement fair value, appreciation decline the fair value such securities will affect our ultimate realization equity securities received compensation; however, any such change does not affect the amount revenue recognized over the term the agreement. generally recognize revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenues associated with non-refundable advance payments) straight-line basis over the period during which perform services under these agreements, commencing the launch date the service. receive non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until service commences. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. have the past, and may the future, amend our agreements with certain the companies with which have commercial agreements modify future cash proceeds received , modify the service term our commercial agreements, both. Although these amendments generally not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing future revenue recognition changes correspond with the terms amended agreements. These amendments future amendments will affect the timing and amount revenues recognized connection with these commercial agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Fair Value Equity Securities Received Compensation Under Commercial Agreements For equity securities public companies received compensation under commercial agreements, generally determine fair value based the quoted market price the time enter into the underlying commercial agreement and adjust such market price appropriately significant restrictions marketability exist. Because observable market price does not exist for equity securities private companies, our estimates fair value such securities are more subjective than for the securities PAGEBREAK public companies. For significant transactions involving equity securities private companies, obtain and consider independent, third-party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use variety methodologies estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities publicly traded companies similar lines business, applying price multiples estimated future operating results for the private company, and utilizing estimated discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the otherwise fair value factor that intended account for restrictions control and marketability where appropriate. Using these valuations and other information available , such our knowledge the industry and the company itself, determine the estimated fair value the securities received. Accounting for Goodwill and Certain Other Intangibles Effective July , , adopted certain provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , \x93Business Combinations,\x94 and effective January , , adopted the full provisions SFAS . and SFAS . , \x93Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.\x94 SFAS . requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets apart from goodwill. evaluated our goodwill and intangibles acquired prior June , using the criteria SFAS . , which resulted $ million other intangibles (comprised entirely assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill January , . SFAS . requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. evaluated our intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS . prescribes two-phase process for impairment testing goodwill. The first phase screens for impairment, while the second phase ( necessary) measures the impairment. completed our first phase impairment analysis and found instances impairment our recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary during . subsequent indicators impairment have been noted. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated commencement timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Results Operations Net Sales Net sales include the selling price consumer products sold , less promotional discounts, rebates and sales returns; outbound shipping charges billed our customers; commissions and other amounts earned from sales new and used products Amazon Marketplace; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof) for sales retail products through our Merchants@ program, such Toysrus com and Target stores www amazon com ; the selling price consumer products sold through our Syndicated Stores program, such www borders com ; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof) connection with our Merchant com program, such www target com ; amounts earned from third parties who utilize our technology services such search, browse and personalization; and amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Net sales were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. The increases net sales were primarily attributable our International segment and our BMVD segment, which increased $ million and $ million , respectively. The increases net sales were primarily PAGEBREAK attributable our International segment and our ETK segment, which increased $ million and $ million, respectively. During , revenues improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound). Net sales for our BMVD segment were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively, representing increase % for comparison with decline % for . This segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD/ video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from Amazon Marketplace sales these products, new, used collectible, amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement growth rates for our BMVD segment comparison with reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing efforts reduce prices for customers, including increases customer discounts books and the introduction everyday free shipping www amazon com for certain orders. Also contributing the increase growth rates for BMVD are increases unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our ETK segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. This segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement growth rates for our ETK segment comparison with reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing efforts reduce prices for customers, including increases customer discounts through price changes and rebate programs and the introduction everyday free shipping www amazon com for certain orders. Also contributing the increase growth rates for ETK are increases unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our International segment were $ billion, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. anticipate that the revenue base our International segment increases, the percentage growth rates will likely decline over time. During , revenues improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound). This segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . The increase net sales from our International segment results from, each the four internationally-focused Web sites, increase unit sales ( part due the introduction Amazon Marketplace www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ), and our continuing efforts reduce prices customers through increases customer discounts and free and reduced-rate shipping offers. The future growth our International segment may fluctuate significantly with changes foreign exchange rates. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Have Foreign Exchange Risk.\x94 Net sales for our Services segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and %, respectively. This segment consists PAGEBREAK commissions, fees and other amounts earned from our services business, including our Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such our apparel store, the Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com , well our commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The increase net sales from our Services segment results from amounts earned through our Merchants@ program and our Merchant com program, offset the expiration certain our marketing and promotional agreements. The amount compensation receive under certain these services agreements dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. See Item Part \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships.\x94 Shipping revenue (which consists outbound shipping charges our customers) across all operating segments was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Shipping revenue does not include any commissions other amounts earned from Amazon Marketplace. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified amount, and lowered this threshold several times throughout the year. offer similar shipping options for our internationally-focused Web sites and may offer other free reduced-fee shipping options over time. These shipping offers reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and cause our gross margins retail sales decline. view these shipping offers effective marketing tool. First quarter net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %. For the full year , net sales are expected grow over %. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Gross Profit Gross profit net sales less the cost sales, which consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges , packaging supplies and certain costs associated with our service revenues. Costs associated with our Services segment revenues and classified cost services generally include fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf third-party sellers, costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Effective January , , prospectively changed our inventory costing method the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase product inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the statements operations . evaluated the effect the change each quarter during and determined such effect less than $ million individually and the aggregate. determined this change preferable under accounting principles generally accepted the United States since, among other reasons, facilitates our record keeping process, significantly improves our ability provide cost-efficient fulfillment services other companies part our services offering and results increased consistency with others our industry. Gross profit was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. Increases gross profit primarily correspond with increases units sold (including increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace), improvements transportation and inventory management and improvements product sourcing, offset price reductions books and electronics, the expiration certain high-margin marketing and promotional agreements, and our free and reduced-rate shipping offers. Increases gross profit primarily correspond with improvements inventory management and product sourcing, and lesser extent, increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace. Our overall gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including PAGEBREAK our mix sales during the period (including sales through Amazon Marketplace), competitive pricing decisions and general efforts reduce prices for our customers over time, well the extent which provide free and reduced-rate shipping offers. Gross profit for our BMVD segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. The slight improvement gross margin corresponds with the increase higher margin sales through Amazon Marketplace, improvements transportation costs and inventory management, and continued improvements product sourcing, offset price reductions and our everyday free shipping offer. Gross profit for our ETK segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was % for and and % for . , improvements product sourcing, inventory management and transportation management, along with lower transportation costs, were offset price reductions and our everyday free shipping offer. , improvement gross margin primarily reflects improvements product sourcing and inventory management. During , sales products through Amazon Marketplace increased significantly comparison the prior year. product sales through Amazon Marketplace continue increase, anticipate improvement gross margin, offset the extent offer additional broader price reductions, free shipping offers and other promotions. Gross profit for our International segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was % for and , and % for . The increase gross profit reflects increases units sold each our four internationally-focused Web sites included this segment ( part due the introduction Amazon Marketplace www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ), offset continuing efforts reduce prices for our customers. During , gross profit improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound).The increase gross profit reflects increases units sold our www amazon and www amazon sites, well the launch our www amazon and www amazon sites during the second half . Gross profit for our Services segment was $ million for and and $ million for , representing flat gross profit and increase % for . Costs associated with our service revenues generally include fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf other businesses, including costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. Gross profit from our Services segment largely corresponds with revenues from our commercial agreements, which includes our Merchant com program and, the extent product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, the Merchants@ program, well amounts earned through miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The decline gross margin from our Services segment relates service costs classified cost sales resulting from the shift the mix our commercial relationships towards agreements that incorporate broader range services, including fulfillment. Also contributing the decline Services gross margin was the expiration certain high-margin marketing and promotional agreements. expect Services segment margins will decline again since high-margin marketing arrangements are expected represent lower percentage our overall revenue mix for this segment. See Item Part \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships.\x94 Shipping loss across all operating segments was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The loss from shipping primarily reflects the free and reduced-rate shipping offers, offset part cost reductions from efficiencies our outbound shipping. continue measure our shipping results relative their effect our overall financial results, with the viewpoint that shipping PAGEBREAK promotions are effective marketing tool. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified purchase thresholds. offer similar shipping option for our internationally-focused Web sites and may offer other free reduced-fee shipping options over time. expect continue offering our customers free shipping options which reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and negatively affect gross margins. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-party -sourcers that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain Services segment fulfillment-related costs incurred behalf other businesses are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Fulfillment costs were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The improvement fulfillment costs percentage net sales results from improvements productivity and accuracy, the increase units fulfilled helping leverage the fixed-cost portion our fulfillment network, decline customer service contacts per order resulting from improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features available our Web sites. These improvements were offset, part, increases employee wages and benefits and credit card interchange fees associated with Amazon Marketplace, which represent higher percent commissions earned relative amounts earned from retail sales our inventory. Additionally, the comparisons between and (and lesser extent the comparisons between and ) were affected the closures our fulfillment centers McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington, and customer service centers The Hague, Netherlands and Seattle, Washington. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. Marketing expenses, net -operative marketing reimbursements, were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Declines expense for marketing-related activities reflect management efforts cut ineffective marketing programs, well reduced rates charged for some online marketing activities. These decreases are partially offset increased investment marketing channels considered most effective driving incremental net sales, such targeted online advertising through various Web portals and our Associates program. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified amount. offer similar shipping options for our internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses not include our free and reduced shipping offers, view such offers effective marketing tool. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The decline absolute dollars spent for each comparative period primarily reflects our migration technology platform that utilizes less-costly technology infrastructure, well improved expense management and general price reductions most expense categories. expect continue invest technology and improvements our Web sites, which may PAGEBREAK include, but are not limited , hiring additional employees, offering additional Web site features and product categories our customers and implementing additional commercial relationships, well potentially continuing our international expansion. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, human resources, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The decline general and administrative costs primarily attributable decline facility and depreciation costs resulting from our operational restructuring plan that consolidated our corporate office locations, and through continued efforts improve efficiency. The decline general and administrative costs attributable reductions most administrative expense categories, including employee-related, facility and depreciation costs, supplies and other miscellaneous charges, well decreased costs result our operational restructuring. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment certain stock options and restricted stock issued certain key employees, well amounts associated with our newly-implemented restricted stock unit program. Stock-based compensation also includes, lesser extent, portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure certain key employees acquired businesses. Under our restricted stock unit program, which commenced the fourth quarter , award restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding employee service period. the extent restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation associated with our restricted stock unit program was $ million . The number shares common stock subject outstanding vested and unvested employee stock awards (including restricted stock units) was approximately million and million, % and % our outstanding common stock, December , and , respectively. During the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options, which resulted variable accounting treatment for approximately million stock options December , , including approximately million options granted under the exchange offer that have exercise prices $ and expire the third quarter . Variable accounting treatment results unpredictable and potentially significant charges credits recorded \x93Stock-based compensation,\x94 dependent fluctuations quoted prices for our common stock. have quantified the hypothetical effect \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 associated with various quoted prices our common stock, which are unable forecast accurately, using sensitivity analysis for our outstanding stock options subject variable accounting December , . have provided this information give additional insight into the volatility will experience our future results operations the extent that the quoted price for our common stock above $ . This sensitivity analysis not prediction future performance the quoted prices our common stock. Using the following hypothetical market prices our common stock above $ (including the actual expense associated with options exercised), our hypothetical cumulative compensation expense PAGEBREAK December , resulting from variable accounting treatment would have been follows ( thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): Hypothetical . Actual Cumulative Hypothetical Increase Hypothetical Market Hypothetical Cumulative Compensation Expense Over $ Price per Share Compensation Expense December , % $ $ , $ ( , ) % , ( , ) % , , % , , % , , Actual variable-accounting related compensation could differ significantly from the above illustration instances where options are exercised during period prices that differ from the closing stock price for the reporting period. December , , the Company\x92 common stock closed $ , representing increase % over $ . Cumulative compensation expense associated with variable accounting treatment was $ million, which $ million associated with options exercised and therefore longer subject future variability. the end any fiscal quarter the quoted price our common stock lower than the quoted price the end the previous fiscal quarter, the extent previously-recorded amounts relate unvested portions options that were cancelled, compensation expense associated with variable accounting will recalculated using the cumulative expense method and may result net benefit our results operations. Amortization Goodwill and Other Intangibles Amortization goodwill and other intangibles was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The decline amortization goodwill and intangibles primarily results from our adoption SFAS . , which resulted $ million intangible assets, comprised assembled workforce intangibles, being subsumed into goodwill, and our adoption SFAS . , which requires that goodwill longer amortized. The decline amortization goodwill and intangibles results from impairment loss $ million recorded the fourth quarter associated with certain our business acquisitions. This impairment loss reduced our recorded basis goodwill and other intangibles and had the effect reducing amortization expense during . Restructuring-Related and Other Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. the first quarter , announced and began implementation our operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline our organizational structure, consolidate certain our fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation our Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure our McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation our Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure our customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however may adjust our restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. During , revised our estimates ongoing net lease obligations for our facilities Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due weakness these real estate markets; reached termination agreement with the landlord our leased fulfillment center facility McDonough, Georgia, PAGEBREAK which requires payments totaling $ million ( which $ million was paid December , with the balance payable the first quarter ); and permanently closed our fulfillment center Seattle, Washington. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees, and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance Balance December , Subsequent December , Due Within Due After Accruals, Net Payments Months( ) Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) , , , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 respectively, our consolidated balance sheets. Cash payments resulting from our operational restructuring were $ million and $ million for and , respectively. estimate, based currently available information, the remaining net cash outflows associated with our restructuring-related commitments will follows ( thousands): Leases Other Total Years Ending December , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , \x97 , , \x97 , Thereafter , \x97 , Total estimated cash outflows $ , $ , $ , PAGEBREAK Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Restructuring-related and other expenses primarily relate impairments goodwill and other intangibles recorded connection with certain our business acquisitions. Income (Loss) from Operations Our results from operations were income $ million and losses $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The improvement operating results comparison with the prior year was attributable increase gross profit; reduction certain operating costs including marketing, technology and content and general and administrative; decline restructuring-related charges; well decline amortization goodwill and other intangibles primarily due the adoption SFAS . ; offset stock-based compensation charges associated primarily with certain our employee stock options under variable accounting treatment. are unable forecast accurately the effect our future reported results associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Interest income was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, and interest expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Interest income declined comparison with primarily result declining interest rates, offset part increases the average balance cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income declined comparison with due primarily decreases the average balance cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest expense primarily related our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94), and our Senior Discount Notes. The increase interest expense for comparison with primarily associated with our February issuance the % PEACS. December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion. Beginning November , will begin make semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK Other Gains (Losses), Net Other gains (losses), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gains (losses) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ , $ \x97 Gains (losses) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , ( , ) \x97 Other-than-temporary impairment losses equity investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Gains sales equity investments, net , \x97 \x97 Gains from terminations commercial contracts \x97 , , Net gains from acquisition investments third parties \x97 , Warrant remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) \x97 $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees Equity losses equity-method investees represents our share losses companies which have investments that give the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. This influence generally defined ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %, although other factors, such representation our investee\x92 Board Directors and the effect commercial arrangements, are considered determining whether the equity method accounting appropriate. Equity-method losses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Our basis equity-method investments was less than $ million, and $ million December , and , respectively. equity-method losses are only recorded until the underlying investments are reduced zero, expect, absent additional investments, equity-method losses future periods insignificant. Income Taxes have provided for current and deferred . federal, state and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where certain our subsidiaries produce taxable income. December , , have recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. have provided valuation allowance for the remainder our deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. December , , had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begins expire . Approximately $ billion our net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Net Loss Net loss was $ million, $ million and $ billion for , and , respectively. Year over year improvements during and result from variety factors, including growth net PAGEBREAK sales, overall declines operating costs (offset stock-based compensation charges associated primarily with certain our employee stock options under variable accounting treatment), lower impairment charges associated with our investment portfolio and declines losses from equity-method investments, offset losses arising from the remeasurement our % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars. Although reported fourth quarter net income $ million, believe that this positive net income result should not viewed material positive event and not predictive future results for variety reasons. For example, excluding the $ million restructuring-related gain associated with our McDonough, Georgia, fulfillment center lease-termination agreement, would have reported net loss the fourth quarter . Alternatively, excluding the $ million stock-based compensation charge associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options that resulted from increase our stock price during the fourth quarter, excluding the $ million foreign exchange loss the remeasurement our PEACS from Euros . Dollars, would have reported more net income the fourth quarter . are unable forecast the effect our future reported results certain items, including the stock-based compensation charges credits associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options that will result from fluctuations our stock price, and the gain loss associated with our % PEACS that will result from fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Unearned Revenue During and , activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , $ , Cash received accounts receivable , Fair value equity securities received Amortization revenue ( , ) Contract termination ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , During , recorded previously unearned revenue associated with the termination our commercial agreement with Kozmo com, which was included \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, amounts associated with the Kozmo com commercial agreement were previously recognized \x93Net sales\x94 during any period. Pro Forma Results Operations provide certain pro forma information regarding our results from operations, which excludes the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 stock-based compensation, \x95 amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and \x95 restructuring-related and other. PAGEBREAK also provide certain pro forma information regarding our net loss, which excludes, addition the line items described above, the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 other gains (losses), net, \x95 equity losses equity-method investees, net, and \x95 cumulative effect change accounting principle. This pro forma information not presented accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Pro forma results are provided complement results provided accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Our management uses such pro forma measures internally evaluate our performance, prepare and measure our operating plan and manage our operations. Our management believes pro forma measures provide useful information investors regarding our financial condition and results operations because pro forma results exclude certain items that are unpredictable and outside our control, not settled cash, both, such the effects foreign exchange rates \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 and the effect the changes the price the Company\x92 common stock \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Other amounts, such charges associated with our operational restructuring, are excluded provide our management and investors information relating ongoing operations. All pro forma results are derived from information presented our financial statements. For information about our financial results, reported accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\x94 PAGEBREAK Full year and corresponding quarterly pro forma results operations, and certain cash flow information for , and , were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income from operations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Pro forma net income (loss) $ , $ , $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma income from operations percentage net sales % % % % % Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic income (loss) per share , , , , , Shares used computation pro forma diluted income (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income (loss) from operations $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma income (loss) from operations percentage net sales ( )% % ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic income (loss) per share , , , , , Shares used computation pro forma diluted income (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma loss from operations $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma loss from operations percentage net sales ( )% ( )% ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic and diluted loss per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK The following reconciliation our pro forma results for , and . Quarterly reconciliations are consistent with full-year presentation. Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Pro Forma Pro Forma Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma ( ( ( thousands) thousands) thousands) Net sales $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , Cost sales , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , Gross profit , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Marketing , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Technology and content , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , General and administrative , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Stock-based compensation , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Restructuring- related and other , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Total operating expenses , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , Income (loss) from operations , , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Interest income , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Interest expense ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other income (expense), net , \x97 , ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other gains (losses), net ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Total non- operating expenses, net ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Income (loss) before equity losses equity- method investees ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , , ) , ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Income (loss) before change accounting principle ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , , ) , ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( , ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic income (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Diluted income (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Shares used computation income (loss) per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , ( ) accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. PAGEBREAK First quarter pro forma net profit expected between $ million and $ million, between $ per share and $ per share. Pro forma net profit for full year expected over $ million, over $ per share. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $ million, $ million and $ million, and our marketable securities balance was $ million, $ million and $ million December , , and , respectively. Combined cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $ billion, $ million and $ billion December , , and , respectively. Equity securities $ million are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 December , , the value which may fluctuate significantly. Equity securities $ million and $ million were included \x93Marketable securities\x94 December , and , respectively. have pledged portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign-exchange rate risk portion our % PEACS; and some our real estate lease agreements. The amount marketable securities are required pledge pursuant the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value the swap obligation. The change the total amount collateral pledged under these agreements was follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Swap Real Estate Credit Agreement Leases Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , December , , our principal commitments consisted long-term indebtedness totaling $ billion related primarily our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes; trade payables $ million; and accrued expenses and other liabilities $ million, which includes current restructuring-related obligations $ million. Additionally, are scheduled under certain our long-term debt obligations make periodic interest payments through the aggregate $ million, and are obligated under operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements the aggregate $ million and $ million, respectively. The following are our contractual commitments associated with our operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing agreements ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , PAGEBREAK Thereafter Total Other commitments: Debt principal and other( ) , , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases , , , , , , , Marketing agreements , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) Principal and interest payments due under the Company\x92 % PEACS, excluding those payments with fixed exchange ratio under the currency swap hedge arrangement, will fluctuate based the Euro/ . Dollar exchange ratio. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Long-term capital lease obligations $ Net cash provided used operating activities consists net loss offset certain adjustments not affecting current-period cash flows, and the effect changes working capital. Adjustments net loss determine cash flows from operations include depreciation and amortization, equity losses investees and other items not affecting cash flows the current period. Net cash provided operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ million that was offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ million, and changes working capital $ million. Adjustments not affecting cash flows were primarily associated with losses resulting from the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars, depreciation fixed assets, stock-based compensation and non-cash interest expense. Net cash used operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ million, offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ million and changes working capital $ million. Net cash used operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ billion, offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ billion and changes working capital $ million. Cash used investing activities during was $ million, consisting net purchases marketable securities $ million and purchases fixed assets $ million. Cash used investing activities during was $ million, consisting net purchases marketable securities PAGEBREAK $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquired assets $ million. Cash provided investing activities during was $ million, consisting net sales marketable securities $ million offset cash paid for investments $ million and purchases fixed assets $ million. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million, consisting primarily proceeds from exercises stock options, offset repayments long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million, consisting primarily proceeds from the issuance common stock America Online well exercises stock options, offset repayments long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million consisting primarily net proceeds from issuance million Euros % PEACS. expect cash proceeds from exercises employee stock options decline over time plan issue restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee stock-based awards. believe that current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. addition, expect have positive free cash flow (operating cash flow less purchases fixed assets) for fiscal year . However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution our stockholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable , all. link2 "Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk" Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. PAGEBREAK The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts were follows ( thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Commercial paper and short- term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts are follows ( thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate \x97 % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % PAGEBREAK Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Treasury notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed- income securities $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , December , , have long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes, which are due , and , respectively. Our payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised interest payments, principal payments, combination thereof. The market value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, and the fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from five our internationally-focused Web sites ( www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales generated from these Web sites, well most the related expenses incurred, are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding Web sites. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada, respectively. Results operations from our foreign subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed foreign exchange fluctuations the financial results these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars average rates prevailing during the year upon consolidation. exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. The effect foreign exchange fluctuations for our internationally-focused Web sites increased net sales $ million and increased results from operations $ million. December , , were also exposed foreign exchange risk related Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities (\x93Euro Investments\x94), well our % PEACS. December , the Euro Investments, classified available-for-sale, had balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Our % PEACS have outstanding principal balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ), which million Euros principal hedged. Based the outstanding Euro Investment balance December , , assumed %, % and % strengthening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result corresponding decline the total fair value such investments approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Based the outstanding (unhedged) % PEACS\x92 principal balance million Euros December , , assumed %, % and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result corresponding currency losses approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively, recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 hedge the foreign exchange risk our % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros and portion the interest payments using cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, PAGEBREAK agreed pay inception and receive upon maturity million Euros exchange for receiving inception and paying maturity $ million. addition, agreed receive February each year million Euros corresponding with interest payments million Euros the % PEACS and, simultaneously, pay $ million. This agreement cancelable, whole part, our option cost after February , our common stock price (converted into Euros) greater than equal Euros, the minimum conversion price the % PEACS. account for the swap agreement cash flow hedge the risk exchange rate fluctuations the debt principal and interest. Gains and losses the swap agreement are initially recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 our balance sheets and recognized \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 our statements operations upon the recognition the corresponding currency losses and gains the remeasurement the % PEACS. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments.\x94 invest the stock and warrants both private and public companies, including companies with which have formed commercial relationships, primarily for strategic purposes. December , , held investments publicly-traded and privately held companies with recorded basis $ million and $ million, respectively. regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During , recorded impairment losses totaling $ million write-down several our equity securities fair value. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, % and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. PAGEBREAK link2 "Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements Operations Consolidated Statements Cash Flows Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Notes Consolidated Financial Statements PAGEBREAK REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the full provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Business Combinations, and . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective January , . The Company also adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, effective January , . addition, discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out method accounting. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December , December , ( thousands, except per share data) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Fixed assets, net , , Goodwill, net , , Other intangibles, net , , Other equity investments , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , , $ , , LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Unearned revenue , , Interest payable , , Current portion long-term debt and other , , Total current liabilities , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 deficit: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares \x97 , Issued and outstanding shares \x97 none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares \x97 , , Issued and outstanding shares \x97 , and , shares, respectively , , Additional paid- capital , , , , Deferred stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) , ( , ) Accumulated deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total stockholders\x92 deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 deficit $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS Years Ended December , ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Stock-based compensation( ) , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Restructuring-related and other , , , Total operating expenses , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net , ( , ) ( , ) Other gains (losses), net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Loss before equity losses equity-method investees ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Loss before change accounting principle ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) \x97 Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Basic and diluted loss per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation loss per share: Basic and diluted , , , ( ) Components stock-based compensation: Fulfillment $ , $ $ ( , ) Marketing , ( ) Technology and content , , , General and administrative , ( ) $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS Years Ended December , ( thousands) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Equity losses equity-method investees, net , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Non-cash restructuring-related and other , , , Gain sale marketable securities, net ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other losses (gains), net , , , Non-cash interest expense and other , , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) , \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( , ) , ( , ) Accounts payable , ( , ) , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , , Unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest payable , ( ) , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , ( , ) ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and Web site development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investments equity-method investees and other investments \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) , FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercise stock options and other , , , Proceeds from issuance common stock, net issuance costs \x97 , \x97 Proceeds from long-term debt and other \x97 , , Repayment capital lease obligations and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing costs \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net cash provided financing activities , , , Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) ( , ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements $ , $ , $ , Equity securities received for commercial agreements \x97 , Stock issued connection with business acquisitions and minority investments \x97 , , Cash paid for interest , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY (DEFICIT) Accumulated Total Common Stock Additional Deferred Other Stockholders\x92 Paid- Stock-Based Comprehensive Accumulated Equity Shares Amount Capital Compensation Income (Loss) Deficit (Deficit) ( thousands) Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , , ) ( , , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , , ) Issuance capital stock, net issuance costs , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Public offering equity-method investee \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments \x97 \x97 ( , ) , \x97 \x97 ( , ) Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized losses Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Issuance capital stock, net issuance costs , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Repayments note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments , , ( , ) \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized gains Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 \x97 ( , ) Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Variable accounting and other stock compensation amortization \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , , ) $ ( , , ) See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . The Company seeks offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. The Company and its sellers list new, used and collectible items categories such apparel and accessories, electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through Amazon Marketplace, the Merchants@ program, zShops and Auctions, participating businesses individuals can sell their products Amazon com\x92 customers. The Company operates six global Web sites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . The Company also owns and operates the Internet Movie Database www imdb com (\x93IMDb\x94), which source information movie and entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb Pro, subscription service designed for the entertainment industry. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities, incentive discount offers, valuation investments, taxes and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Business Combinations For business combinations that have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired included goodwill the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company classifies all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost market value. The Company makes judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition (whether through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations), and PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, which applied consistently from period period, the Company records valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount its inventories lower cost market value. Accounting Changes Inventories Effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the consolidated statements operations. The Company evaluated the effect the change each quarter and determined such effect less than $ million individually and the aggregate. The Company determined this change preferable under accounting principles generally accepted the United States since, among other reasons, facilitates the Company\x92 record keeping process, significantly improves its ability provide cost-efficient fulfillment services third-party companies part its services offering and results increased consistency with others the industry. The Company received letter preferability for this change inventory costing from its independent auditors. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Effective July , , the Company adopted certain provisions Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , \x93Business Combinations,\x94 and effective January , , the Company adopted the full provisions SFAS . and SFAS . , \x93Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.\x94 SFAS . requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting, and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets apart from goodwill. The Company evaluated its goodwill and intangibles acquired prior June , using the criteria SFAS . , which resulted $ million other intangibles (comprised entirely assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill January , . SFAS . requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. The Company evaluated its intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS . prescribes two-phase process for impairment testing goodwill. The first phase screens for impairment; while the second phase ( necessary) measures the impairment. The Company completed its first phase impairment analysis during the first quarter and found instances impairment its recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary. subsequent indicators impairment have been noted the Company. accordance with Accounting Principles Board (\x93APB\x94) Opinion . , \x93Accounting Changes,\x94 the effect these accounting changes reflected prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure, the change had been retroactively applied, follows ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net loss: Reported net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Goodwill amortization( ) \x97 , , Inventory costing change( ) ( ) Adjusted net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) For the Years Ended December , Basic and diluted loss per share: Reported loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Goodwill amortization( ) \x97 Inventory costing change( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 Adjusted basic and diluted loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes $ million and $ million, $ and $ per share, for and , respectively, related amortization other intangibles that are classified goodwill effective January , . ( ) The inventory costing change reflects the cumulative adjustment through that date. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased under capital leases, are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software, including software used upgrade and enhance the Company\x92 Web sites. The Company expenses all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software (generally two years). Goodwill and Other Intangibles Other intangibles consist the following ( thousands): December , December , Gross Other Gross Other Carrying Accumulated Intangibles, Carrying Accumulated Intangibles, Amount Amortization Net Amount Amortization Net Contract-based $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Marketing-related , ( , ) , ( , ) , Technology-based , ( , ) , ( , ) Customer-related , ( , ) , ( ) , Assembled workforce( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( , ) , Other intangibles $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) January , , accordance with SFAS . , the Company reclassified its assembled workforce intangibles into goodwill. December , and , goodwill was $ million and $ million, respectively, stated net accumulated amortization $ million ( which $ million accumulated amortization was reclassified with the adoption SFAS . January , ) and $ million, respectively. During , goodwill other intangibles were acquired, impaired, disposed, and consistent with SFAS . , goodwill amortization was recorded. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized the end . Amortization expense for the net carrying amount intangible assets December , estimated $ million , and less than $ million . Investments Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the Company the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. Significant influence generally deemed exist the Company has ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %, although other factors, such representation the investee\x92 Board Directors and the effect commercial arrangements, are considered determining whether the equity method accounting appropriate. The Company records its equity the income losses these investees generally one month arrears for private companies and three months arrears for public companies. The Company records its investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other equity investments\x94 and its share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Equity losses equity-method investees, net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. All other equity investments, which consist investments for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, the Company classifies its equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets the Company does not have the intent hold the investment for over one year from the balance sheet date. cases where the Company has the intent hold such investments for over one year from the balance sheet date, such investments are included \x93Other equity investments.\x94 The Company also invests certain marketable debt securities, which consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities that are classified available-for-sale securities. Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. The initial cost the Company\x92 investments determined based the fair value the investment the time its acquisition. The Company has received equity securities consideration for services performed for the issuer under commercial agreements. such cases, the Company has estimated the fair value the equity securities received. For securities public companies, the Company generally determines fair value based the quoted market price the time the Company enters into the underlying agreement, and adjusts such market price appropriately significant restrictions marketability exist. observable market price does not exist for equity securities private companies, estimates fair value such securities are more subjective than for securities public companies. For significant transactions involving equity securities private companies, the Company obtains and considers independent, third party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use variety methodologies estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities publicly traded companies similar lines business, applying price multiples estimated future operating results for the private company, and estimating discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the fair value account for restrictions control and marketability where appropriate. Using these valuations and other PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) information available the Company, such the Company\x92 knowledge the industry and knowledge specific information about the investee, the Company determines the estimated fair value the securities received. the extent that equity securities are subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon signing the agreements, the fair value the securities determined the date the respective forfeiture vesting provisions lapse. The Company periodically evaluates whether the declines fair value its investments are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists review qualitative and quantitative factors members senior management. For investments with publicly quoted market prices, the Company generally considers decline other-than-temporary impairment the quoted market price less than its accounting basis for two consecutive quarters, absent evidence the contrary. The Company considers additional factors determine whether declines fair value are other-than-temporary, such the investee\x92 financial condition, results operations, operating trends and other financial ratios. The evaluation also considers publicly available information regarding the investee companies, including reports from investment analysts and other publicly available investee-specific news general market conditions. For investments private companies with quoted market price, the Company considers similar qualitative and quantitative factors and also considers the implied value from any recent rounds financing completed the investee, well market prices comparable public companies. The Company generally requires its private investees deliver monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements assist reviewing relevant financial data and assist determining whether such data may indicate other-than-temporary declines fair value below the Company\x92 accounting basis. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. The Company does not perform periodic assessment assets for impairment the absence such information indicators. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets held and used, the Company recognizes impairment loss only its carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted cash flows and measures the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and fair value. Long-lived assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Other Assets Other assets consist primarily fees incurred connection with the issuance the Company\x92 debt. These fees are amortized ratably component interest expense over the life the underlying debt. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments, whether received cash equity securities, are received advance the Company\x92 performance the underlying agreement. Unearned revenue amortized ratably over the period which services are provided. instances where the Company receives equity securities compensation for services provided under commercial arrangements, the fair value these securities, less the net amount cash paid for them, then recorded unearned revenue. Pursuant Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , \x93Accounting Grantee for Equity Instrument Received Conjunction with Providing Goods Services,\x94 the Company does not adjust unearned revenue give effect either increases decreases PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) value the equity securities subsequent their initial measurement ( the extent that such securities are not subject vesting forfeiture). Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. The Company provides valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets the extent such assets are not expected realized. Revenue Recognition The Company generally recognizes revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. The Company evaluates the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , \x93Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent,\x94 determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when the Company the primary obligor transaction, subject inventory risk, has latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, has several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. the Company not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, the Company generally records the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon the Company\x92 delivery the carrier (commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point\x94). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue management\x92 best estimate expected product returns) are estimated using historical experience. The Company periodically provides incentive offers its customers encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage discounts off current purchases (\x93current discount offers\x94), offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase (\x93inducement offers\x94) and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction and are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Inducement offers, when accepted customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using the Company\x92 historical experience for similar inducement offers. Commissions received sales products through Amazon Marketplace, well commissions earned through the Company\x92 Merchants@ program (see \x93Note \x97 Segment Information\x94), are recorded net amount since the Company acting agent such transactions. addition, the Company recognizes amounts earned through its Merchant program (see \x93Note \x97 Segment Information\x94) net amount. Amounts earned are recognized net sales when the item sold the third-party seller and collectibility reasonably assured. The Company records allowance for refunds such commissions using historical experience. The Company earns revenues from services primarily entering into commercial agreements, including providing its technology services such search, browse, and personalization; permitting third parties offer products services through its Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with our without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial agreements also include PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. compensation for the services the Company provides under these agreements, the Company receives cash, equity securities, combination thereof. Generally, the fair value the equity consideration received measured when the agreement executed, but the extent that the equity consideration subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon execution the agreement, the fair value the equity consideration and corresponding revenue determined the date that the forfeiture provision lapses the vesting provision lapses. Subsequent initial measurement fair value, appreciation decline the fair value such securities will affect the Company\x92 ultimate realization equity securities received compensation; however, any such change does not affect the amount revenue recognized over the term the agreement. The Company generally recognizes revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenue associated with non-refundable advance payments) straight-line basis over the period during which the Company performs services under these agreements, commencing the launch date the service. the Company receives non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until service commences. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company has the past, and may the future, amend its agreements with certain the companies with which has commercial agreements modify future cash proceeds received the Company, modify the service term its commercial agreements, both. Although these amendments generally not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded the Company ( any), the timing future revenue recognition changes correspond with the terms amended agreements. These amendments future amendments will affect the timing and amount revenues recognized connection with these commercial agreements. the extent the Company believes any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, the Company limits its revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Outbound shipping charges customers are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold the Company, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies and certain costs associated with service revenues. Costs associated with service revenues classified cost services generally include direct and allocated indirect fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf third-party sellers, costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing the Company\x92 fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable : receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\x92 orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-party -sourcers that assist the Company fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain Services PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) segment fulfillment-related costs incurred behalf other businesses are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising, promotional, and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. The Company expenses general media advertising costs incurred. The Company enters into certain online promotional agreements with third parties increase traffic its Web sites. Costs associated with these promotional agreements consist fixed payments, variable activity-based payments, combination the two. Fixed payments are amortized ratably over the corresponding agreement term and variable payments are expensed the period incurred. The Company receives reimbursements from vendors for certain general media and other advertising costs. Such reimbursements are recorded reduction expense. Advertising expense and other promotional costs were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Prepaid advertising costs were $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations personnel; and systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software, including upgrades and enhancements the Company\x92 Web sites, that are capitalized and depreciated over two years. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, net accumulated depreciation, was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Costs capitalized during the application development stage for internal-use software, offset corresponding amortization, was net expense $ million , and net deferrals $ million and $ million and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment certain stock options, restricted stock issued certain key employees and amounts associated with the Company\x92 restricted stock unit program, which commenced the fourth quarter . Stock-based compensation also includes, lesser extent, portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure certain key employees acquired businesses. The Company generally has four categories employee stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, fixed-award stock options and options subject variable accounting treatment. December , , the Company has three stock-based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described \x93Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit).\x94 The Company accounts for those plans under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting results stock compensation expense the extent option exercise prices are set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent employee stock awards have been subject exchange offer other modifications, such awards are subject variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based quoted prices the Company\x92 common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Restricted stock and restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price the Company\x92 common stock. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding employee service period. the extent restricted stock restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation associated with restricted stock units was $ million during . During the first quarter , the Company offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options. The exchange resulted the voluntary cancellation employee stock options purchase million shares common stock with varying exercise prices exchange for employee stock options purchase million shares common stock with exercise price $ . The option exchange offer resulted variable accounting treatment for, the time the exchange, approximately million stock options, which includes options granted under the exchange offer and million options, with weighted average exercise price $ , that were subject the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable accounting will continue until all options subject variable accounting treatment are exercised, cancelled expired. December , , approximately million options remain under variable accounting treatment, which includes million options granted under the exchange offer and million options, with weighted average exercise price $ , that were subject the exchange offer but were not exchanged. The following table summarizes relevant information reported results under the Company\x92 intrinsic value method accounting for stock awards, with supplemental information the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Stock Based Compensation,\x94 had been applied ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net loss, reported $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Add: Stock-based compensation, reported , , , Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined under fair value based method for all awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Adjusted net loss, fair value method for all stock-based awards $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Basic and diluted loss per share \x97 reported $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share \x97 SFAS . adjusted $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted average assumptions: For the Years Ended December , Average risk-free interest rates % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % The weighted average fair value stock awards (including restricted stock units granted ) granted during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Foreign Currency The Company has the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . Net sales generated from these Web sites, well most the related expenses incurred, are denominated the functional currencies the Web sites. Additionally, the functional currency the Company\x92 subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada, respectively. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 deficit. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97 Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 Derivative Financial Instruments Effective January , , the Company adopted SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,\x94 which requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current results operations other comprehensive income (loss) depending whether derivative designated part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. For derivative designated fair value hedge, the gain loss the derivative the period change and the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the hedged risk are recognized results operations. For derivative designated cash flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified into results operations when the hedged exposure affects results operations. The ineffective portion the gain loss cash flow hedge recognized currently results operations. For derivative not designated hedging instrument, the gain loss recognized currently results operations. The Company exposed the risk fluctuations foreign exchange rates between the . Dollar and the Euro associated with its % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) (See \x93Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other\x94). minimize portion the risk from this exposure, the Company has designated swap agreement cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest based upon the criteria established SFAS . . The terms the hedge instrument have been structured match the related terms the hedged portion the % PEACS. net gains losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness were recognized results operations during the years ended December , and , respectively. The Company holds warrants purchase equity securities other companies. Warrants that can exercised and settled delivery net shares such that the Company pays cash upon exercise are deemed derivative financial instruments. Net share warrants are not designated hedging instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 the period change. The Company determines the fair value its warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for its private-company warrants. The adoption SFAS . January , resulted cumulative transition losses $ million included the results operations and stockholders\x92 deficit adjustment $ million. Transition losses included \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 warrants previously reported fair value and classified available-for-sale, and approximately $ million PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) losses warrants previously reported cost. warrant investments are designated hedging instruments. Transition losses \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses the swap agreement designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS offset the approximately $ million losses reclassified results operations derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Effective January , , currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Prior January , , % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros was designated hedge equivalent amount Euro-denominated investments classified available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses the % PEACS were recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 the consolidated balance sheets hedging offsets currency gains and losses the Euro-denominated investments. this hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions SFAS . , commencing January , , the foreign currency change resulting from the portion the % PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities now being recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding during the period, net shares subject restrictions, and excludes any dilutive effects options warrants, restricted stock units and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding (including the effect restricted stock units) during the period; common stock equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. Recent Accounting Pronouncements August , the FASB issued SFAS . , \x93Accounting for the Impairment Disposal Long-Lived Assets,\x94 that applicable financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December , . The FASB\x92 new rules asset impairment supersede SFAS . , \x93Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed ,\x94 and portions Accounting Principles Bulletin Opinion , \x93Reporting the Results Operations.\x94 This Standard provides single accounting model for long-lived assets disposed and significantly changes the criteria that would have met classify asset held-for-sale. Classification held-for-sale important distinction since such assets are not depreciated and are stated the lower fair value and carrying amount. This Standard also requires expected future operating losses from discontinued operations displayed the period( ) which the losses are incurred, rather than the measurement date presently required. The provisions this Standard are not expected have significant effect the Company\x92 financial position operating results. November , the EITF reached consensus Issue - , addressing the accounting cash consideration received customer from vendor, including vendor rebates and refunds. The consensus reached states that consideration received should presumed reduction the prices the vendor\x92 products services and should therefore shown reduction cost sales the income statement the customer. The presumption could overcome the vendor receives identifiable benefit exchange for the consideration the consideration represents reimbursement specific incremental identifiable cost incurred the customer selling the vendor\x92 product service. one these conditions met, the cash consideration should characterized reduction those costs the income statement the customer. The consensus reached also concludes that rebates refunds can reasonably estimated, such rebates refunds should recognized reduction the cost sales PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) based systematic and rational allocation the consideration received relative the transactions that mark the progress the customer toward earning the rebate refund. The provisions this consensus are applied prospectively and are consistent with the Company\x92 existing accounting policy. November , the EITF reached consensus Issue - , addressing how account for arrangements that involve the delivery performance multiple products, services, and rights use assets. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: ( ) the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; ( ) there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and ( ) delivery any undelivered item probable. Arrangement consideration should allocated among the separate units accounting based their relative fair values, with the amount allocated the delivered item being limited the amount that not contingent the delivery additional items meeting other specified performance conditions. The final consensus will applicable agreements entered into fiscal periods beginning after June , with early adoption permitted. The provisions this Consensus are not expected have significant effect the Company\x92 financial position operating results. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x97 Transition and Disclosure.\x94 This Statement amends SFAS . , \x93Stock-Based Compensation,\x94 provide alternative methods transition for voluntary change the fair value based method accounting for stock-based employee compensation. addition, this Statement amends the disclosure requirements SFAS . require prominent disclosures both annual and interim financial statements about the method accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect the method used reported results. The disclosure provisions this Standard are effective for fiscal years ending after December , and have been incorporated into these financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize, major security type, the Company\x92 cash and marketable securities ( thousands): December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , , \x97 , Cash and cash equivalents , , \x97 , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Asset-backed and agency securities , , \x97 , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value . Treasury notes and bonds , , ( ) , Equity securities , \x97 \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 ( , ) , Total cash and cash equivalents , \x97 ( , ) , Certificates deposit , \x97 ( ) , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities , \x97 , . Treasury notes and bonds , \x97 , Equity securities , ( ) , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , The following table summarizes contractual maturities the Company\x92 cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( thousands): Amortized Estimated Cost Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through three years , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities , , $ , $ , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities for the years ended December , , , and respectively. The Company has pledged portion its marketable securities collateral for stand- letters credit that guarantee certain its contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges foreign exchange rate risk portion its % PEACS; and some its real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 and \x93Note \x97 Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Fixed Assets Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( thousands): December , Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements $ , $ , Technology infrastructure and other computer equipment , , Software purchased developed for internal use , , Equipment and other fixed assets acquired under capital leases , , , , Less accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Less accumulated amortization leased assets ( , ) ( , ) Fixed assets, net $ , $ , Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Note \x97 Other Equity Investments Activity the Company\x92 equity-method and cost-method investments for the years ended December , and , follows ( thousands): Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Balance, December , $ , $ , $ , Investments \x97 common stock consideration , \x97 , Fair value equity securities received services-related transactions \x97 Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( ) ( ) ( ) Realized gains sales investments, net \x97 Non-cash gains (losses) for acquisitions investees third party , ( ) Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Unrealized gains available-for-sale investments, net \x97 Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Loss from change accounting principle \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( , ) , \x97 Balance, December , , , , Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Realized gains sales investments, net , , , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Unrealized losses available-for-sale investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( ) \x97 Balance, December , $ $ , $ , Effective January , , the Company\x92 adoption SFAS . resulted the recording loss totaling $ million report certain warrants fair value. Prior adoption, such warrants were carried cost. December , and , cost-method investments recorded \x93Other equity investments\x94 included $ million and $ million, respectively, investments recorded fair value and $ million and $ million, respectively, investments carried cost. Gross unrealized gains and losses were not significant December , and . December , and , the fair value the Company\x92 investments the common stock publicly held equity-method investees was $ million and $ million, respectively. Note \x97 Unearned Revenue Activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , $ , Cash received accounts receivable , Fair value equity securities received Amortization revenue ( , ) Contract termination ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , All amounts recorded accounts receivable, including amounts associated with unearned revenue, are legally due and contractually enforceable. December , accounts receivable, net associated with unearned revenue was $ million. During , the Company recognized previously unearned revenue associated with the termination its commercial agreement with Kozmo com, which was included \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the accompanying consolidated statements operations. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, amounts associated with the Kozmo com commercial agreement were previously recognized \x93Net sales\x94 the accompanying consolidated statements operations during any period. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other The Company\x92 long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( thousands): December , % Convertible Subordinated Notes $ , , $ , , % PEACS , , Senior Discount Notes , , Long-term restructuring liabilities , , Euro currency swap , , Capital lease obligations , , Other long-term debt , , , , , , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) Less current portion other long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) $ , , $ , , % PEACS February , , the Company completed offering million Euros % PEACS due . The % PEACS are convertible into the Company\x92 common stock conversion price Euros per share. The initial conversion price Euros per share was adjusted down due reset provisions the note. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated all the Company\x92 existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with the Company\x92 outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. Subject certain conditions, the % PEACS may redeemed the Company\x92 option after February , , whole part, the redemption price , Euros per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which the stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants the Company, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining its corporate existence and properties and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. The Company was compliance with these covenants December , . order hedge portion the risk foreign exchange fluctuations between the . Dollar and the Euro, the Company entered into cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, the Company agreed pay inception and receive upon maturity million Euros exchange for receiving inception and paying maturity $ million. addition, the Company agreed receive February each year million Euros for interest payments million Euros the % PEACS and, simultaneously, pay $ million. The agreement expires February , and cancelable, whole part, the Company\x92 option cost after February , the Company\x92 underlying PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) stock price (converted into Euros) greater than equal the minimum conversion price the % PEACS. The Company has designated the swap agreement cash flow hedge the foreign exchange rate risk portion the % PEACS principal and interest accordance with the provisions SFAS . . Each period, gains losses resulting from changes the fair value the swap contract are recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 and portion such gain loss immediately reclassified the statement operations, \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 offset the foreign currency loss gain attributable remeasurement the hedged portion the % PEACS. For the year ended December , , currency swap gain $ million was reclassified offset $ million currency loss the % PEACS. The terms the swap contract have been structured match the terms the hedged portion the % PEACS. net gains losses, resulting from hedge ineffectiveness, were recognized results operations during the year ended December , and . Effective January , , currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Prior January , , % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros was designated hedge equivalent amount Euro-denominated investments classified available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses the % PEACS were recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 the consolidated balance sheets hedging offsets currency gains and losses the Euro-denominated investments. the hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions SFAS . , commencing January , , the foreign currency change resulting from the portion the % PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities now being recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. The change resulted gain $ million for the year ended December , , consisting $ million gain reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 and $ million gain attributable remeasurement the % PEACS during the period. The fair value the swap determined the present value net future cash payments and receipts, adjusted for the Company\x92 ability cancel the agreement and the likelihood such cancellation. The fair value takes into consideration current foreign exchange rates, market interest rates, the current market price the Company\x92 common stock and other variables. The fair value the swap obligation was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million, December , and December , , respectively. % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into the Company\x92 common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year, and commenced August , . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. any time after February , , least days\x92 notice the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, premium % over its principal balance, together with accrued interest. The redemption premium thereafter reduced % each February between and . Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which the stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants the Company, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining its corporate existence and properties, paying taxes and other claims timely manner and the provision information required under Rule 144A the Securities Act enable holders sell without registration. The Company was compliance with these covenants December , . Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and December , was $ million and $ million, respectively. Senior Discount Notes , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million % Senior Discount Notes due May , (\x93Original Senior Discount Notes\x94). Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93Exchange Notes\x94 \x93Senior Discount Notes\x94), which are registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Original Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the Original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Original Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the Original Senior Discount Notes (\x93Indenture\x94). The Original Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their original principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. During , the Company repurchased $ million (principal amount) the Senior Discount Notes, representing accreted value $ million, resulting remaining outstanding principal amount $ million. The Company recorded immaterial loss extinguishment this debt. repurchases Senior Discount Notes occurred , . The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking equally with the Company\x92 existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\x92 subsidiaries. The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its \x93Restricted Subsidiaries\x94 ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all covenants December , . Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Commitments and Contingencies Commitments The Company currently leases office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. The following are the Company\x92 contractual commitments associated with its operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing agreements ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Other commitments: Debt principal and other( ) , , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases , , , , , , , Marketing agreements , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) Principal and interest payments due under the Company\x92 % PEACS, excluding those payments with fixed exchange ratio under the currency swap hedge arrangement, will fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Long-term capital lease obligations $ Pledged Securities The Company has pledged portion its marketable securities collateral for stand- letters credit that guarantee certain its contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign exchange risk portion its % PEACS; and some its real estate lease agreements. The amount marketable securities the Company required pledge pursuant the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value the swap obligation. The change the total amount collateral pledged under these agreements follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Swap Real Estate Credit Agreement Leases Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Legal Proceedings April , , the Company received request from the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) staff for the voluntary production documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales the Company\x92 common stock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, February and , . The Company cooperating with the SEC staff\x92 continuing inquiry. number purported class action complaints were filed holders the Company\x92 equity and debt securities against the Company, its directors and certain its senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). October , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed consolidated amended complaint alleging that the Company, together with certain its officers and directors and certain third-parties, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through July , concerning the Company\x92 business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. The Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intends vigorously defend itself these matters. August , , the Trustee for the Creditors\x92 Trust for Living com instituted adversary proceeding against subsidiary the Company the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District Texas. The plaintiff alleges that Living com\x92 creditors are entitled contractual recovery PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) approximately $ million fees that Living com had previously paid primarily issuing Living com stock the Company. The Company disputes the plaintiff\x92 allegations and intends vigorously defend itself this matter. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against the Company and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest and declaratory relief. The Company disputes the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intends vigorously defend itself this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect the Company\x92 business, future results operations, financial position cash flows particular period. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, financial condition, operating results. Inventory Suppliers During , the Company purchased over % all inventory purchases from single vendor, Ingram Book Group. other vendors account for over %. The Company does not have long-term contracts arrangements with most its vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Preferred Stock The Company has authorized , , shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock shares were outstanding during , . Basis Adjustments \x97 Public Offerings Investees Three the Company\x92 equity-method investees, HomeGrocer com, Inc., Pets com, Inc. and drugstore com, inc., completed public offerings their common stock during . result those public offerings, the Company\x92 ownership percentage each investee was diluted, creating \x93implied sale\x94 portion its investments. accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin . , \x93Accounting for Sales Stock Subsidiary,\x94 the Company recorded unrealized gains, net unrealized losses, additional paid- capital totaling $ million . The unrealized gains, net, represent the difference between the Company\x92 carrying basis and the fair value the portion each PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) investment deemed have been sold the investees. Details these offerings and the effect the Company\x92 ownership and cost basis the investees are follows: Ownership Shares Price Offering Basis Issued per Amount Prior After Adjustment Offering ( thousands) Share ( thousands) Offering Offering ( thousands) Homegrocer com, Inc. March initial public offering , $ $ , % % $ , Pets com, Inc. February initial public offering , , % % , drugstore com, inc. March secondary public offering , , % % , drugstore com, inc. July private public offering , , % % ( ) Total $ , Stock Award Plans The Company\x92 stock award plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan and the Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under these plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Incentive Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan, which maximum , , shares that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Incentive Plan. connection with certain acquisitions , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under the acquired companies\x92 stock option plans. The Company\x92 stock award plans well the assumed stock award plans are hereby collectively referred the \x93Plans.\x94 , the Company transitioned using restricted stock units, awarded under the Stock Incentive Plan, its primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Employees vest restricted stock unit awards ratably over the corresponding service term, generally three six years. relates stock option awards, the Company\x92 Board Directors generally sets exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Company\x92 plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally became exercisable immediately but are subject restriction transfer that vests over period time. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Certain outstanding options that were granted during and vest and become exercisable the rate % after year one and % after year two. During the first quarter , the Company offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options employees meeting certain eligibility criteria. Options granted pursuant this stock option exchange vest and become exercisable the rate % after months from the date grant and % per month for the succeeding months. Certain options granted the third quarter generally vest and become exercisable follows: ( ) the option vests quarterly equal installments over , month period commencing dates ranging from grant date October , , ( ) the option vests % % date approximately months from date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period (iii) the option vests % % dates approximately months and months PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) from the date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company the exercise price upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock, which includes restricted shares issued connection with acquisitions well shares issued certain key employees and , were subject repurchase forfeiture. Stock Award Activity December , , outstanding stock awards totaled million, which includes million stock options and million restricted stock units. The following table summarizes the Company\x92 stock option activity: Number Shares Weighted Average ( thousands) Exercise Price Balance December , , $ Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Weighted Weighted Number Average Number Average Range Awards Remaining Exercise Awards Exercise Exercise Prices ( thousands) Life (yrs) Price ( thousands) Price $ - $ , $ , $ - , , - , , - , - , , - , - , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Weighted Weighted Number Average Number Average Range Awards Remaining Exercise Awards Exercise Exercise Prices ( thousands) Life (yrs) Price ( thousands) Price - , , - , , - , , Deferred Stock-Based Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred stock-based compensation $ million and $ million and respectively. similar amounts were recorded . Deferred stock-based compensation was recorded connection with the Company\x92 restricted common stock issued key employees for future services. The amounts recorded represent the fair value the Company\x92 common stock issued the date grant. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding service period, which generally five years. Additionally, , and , the Company recorded adjustments reduce previously recorded deferred stock-based compensation $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively, representing the remaining unvested portion restricted stock awards upon termination certain key employees prior vesting. Comprehensive Income (Loss) The changes the components comprehensive loss were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign-currency translations gains (losses), net , ( , ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during year , ( , ) ( , ) Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net loss ( , ) , , Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities , , ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) Euro-based currency swap: Unrealized gains (losses) remeasurement fair value , ( , ) \x97 Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net loss ( , ) , \x97 Net unrealized gains (losses) Euro-based currency swap , ( , ) \x97 Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 ( , ) \x97 Cumulative effect accounting change adopt SFAS . . \x97 ( , ) \x97 Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( , ) ( ) Comprehensive loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) The Company not able predict future gains losses due the remeasurement the hedged portion the % PEACS and equivalent reclassifications losses gains the swap contract from accumulated other comprehensive loss earnings. Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock awards, including restricted stock units , Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes , Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS , Total , Note \x97 Earnings (Loss) Per Share The following represents the calculations for net loss per share ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Loss before change accounting principle $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) \x97 Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Weighted average common shares issued subject restrictions ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share , , , Basic and diluted loss per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) All the Company\x92 stock awards (see \x93Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit)\x94) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. Note \x97 Restructuring-Related and Other Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. the first quarter , the Company announced and began implementation its operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline its organizational structure, consolidate certain its fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion its technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation its Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure its McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation its Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure its customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) large portion its technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however, the Company may adjust its restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. During , the Company revised its estimates ongoing net lease obligations for its facilities Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due weakness these real estate markets; reached termination agreement with the landlord its leased fulfillment center facility McDonough, Georgia; and permanently closed its fulfillment center Seattle, Washington. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance Balance December , Subsequent December , Due Within Due After Accruals, Net Payments Months( ) Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) , , , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 respectively, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Restructuring-related and other expenses primarily relate impairments goodwill and other intangibles recorded connection with certain the Company\x92 business acquisitions. Note \x97 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Note \x97 Other Gains (Losses), Net Other gains (losses), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gains (losses) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ , $ \x97 Gains (losses) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , ( , ) \x97 Other-than-temporary impairment losses equity investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Gains sales equity investments, net , \x97 \x97 Gains from terminations commercial contracts \x97 , , Net gains from acquisition investments third parties \x97 , Warrant remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) \x97 $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Note \x97 Income Taxes The Company has provided for current and deferred . federal, state and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where subsidiaries the Company produce taxable income. December , , the Company has recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. The Company has provided valuation allowance for the PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) remainder its deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\x92 net deferred tax assets, which are included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets,\x94 are follows ( thousands): December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses $ , $ , Assets held for investment , , Revenue items , , Expense items , , Total gross deferred tax assets , , , , Less valuation allowance ( , , ) ( , , ) Net deferred tax assets , , Deferred tax liabilities \x97 Expense items ( ) \x97 Net deferred tax asset $ , $ , December , , the Company had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begins expire . Approximately $ billion the Company\x92 net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Note \x97 Employee Benefit Plan The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\x92 contributions the discretion the Company\x92 Board Directors. Through December , , the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan; however has announced its intentions make employer matching contributions using its common stock. Note \x97 Segment Information The Company presents information its chief operating decision maker four segments: North America Books, Music, and DVD/ Video (\x93BMVD\x94); North America Electronics, Tools, and Kitchen (\x93ETK\x94); International; and Services. Accordingly, the Company discloses its segment financial information along these lines. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) BMVD Segment The BMVD segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD/ video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace, amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through the Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through the Syndicated Stores program. ETK Segment The ETK segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through the Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through the Syndicated Stores program. International Segment The International segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering products through the Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through the Merchants@ program. The International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Operating results for the International segment are affected movements foreign exchange rates. During , International segment revenues improved $ million, and operating results improved $ million comparison the prior year due changes foreign exchange rates. Services Segment The Services segment consists commissions, fees and other amounts earned from the services business, including the Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered the Company through its online retail stores, the Merchants@ program, such the apparel store, Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com, well the commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company measures the results operations its reportable segments using pro forma measure. Pro forma results from operations, which exclude stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges, are not conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other costs are not allocated segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated segment results. There are internal transactions between the Company\x92 reporting segments. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net loss follows ( thousands): Year Ended : North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) , ( ) , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle Net loss $ ( , ) Year Ended : North America Books. Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) , ( , ) , ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) Net loss $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Year Ended : North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Net loss $ ( , , ) Net sales customers outside the . represented approximately %, % and % net sales for , and , respectively. Other than sales into the United Kingdom, which represents approximately % total net sales , individual foreign country, geographical area customer accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( thousands): North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and Year Ended December , DVD Video Kitchen Total Services International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , , , , , , , December , and , fixed assets, net totaled $ million and $ million the United States, respectively, and $ million and $ million other countries, respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Quarterly Results (Unaudited) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation income (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Basic and diluted income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic income (loss) per share , , , , Shares used computation diluted income (loss) per share , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share , , , , ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. PAGEBREAK link2 "Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure" Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. link1 "PART III" PART III link2 "Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant" Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business \x97 Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act set forth the Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Executive Compensation" Item . Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Controls and Procedures" Item . Controls and Procedures Within days prior the date this report, carried out evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures. Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. should noted that the design any system controls based part upon certain assumptions, and there can assurance that any design will succeed achieving its stated goals. addition, reviewed our internal controls, and there have been significant changes our internal controls other factors that could significantly affect those controls subsequent the date their last evaluation. PAGEBREAK link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - " Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description . Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). . Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). PAGEBREAK Exhibit Number Description . \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). . \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Jeff Wilke, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , . . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Mark Peek, dated February , . . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Mark Peek, dated April , . . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. . Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . List Significant Subsidiaries. . Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) Reports Form - : November , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing that Thomas . Ryder, Chairman and CEO the Reader\x92 Digest Association, was elected the Amazon com Board Directors. PAGEBREAK link1 "SIGNATURES" SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, February , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated February , . Signature Title / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Jeffrey . Bezos Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) / / THOMAS . SZKUTAK Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) / / MARK . PEEK Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Tom . Alberg Director / / . JOHN DOERR . John Doerr Director / / MARK . HANSEN Mark . Hansen Director / / THOMAS . RYDER Thomas . Ryder Director / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Patricia . Stonesifer Director PAGEBREAK CERTIFICATION , Jeffrey . Bezos, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Amazon com, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\x92 disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the \x93Evaluation Date\x94); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\x92 auditors and the audit committee registrant\x92 board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\x92 ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\x92 auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\x92 internal controls; and . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Jeffrey . Bezos Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) Date: February , PAGEBREAK CERTIFICATION , Thomas . Szkutak, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Amazon com, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\x92 disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the \x93Evaluation Date\x94); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\x92 auditors and the audit committee registrant\x92 board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\x92 ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\x92 auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\x92 internal controls; and . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. / / THOMAS . SZKUTAK Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) Date: February , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE \x97 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Inventory Valuation Allowance Charged/ Balance (Credited) Inventory Balance Beginning Costs and Disposed End Year Ended Period Expenses Written Off Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Accounts Receivable Allowance \x97 Customers Charged/ Balance (Credited) Balance Beginning Costs and Amounts End Year Ended Period Expenses Written Off Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Accounts Receivable Allowance \x97 Vendors Charged/ Balance (Credited) Balance Beginning Costs and Amounts End Year Ended Period Expenses Written Off Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , PAGEBREAK EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description . Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). . Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). . \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Jeff Wilke, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , . . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Mark Peek, dated February , . . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Mark Peek, dated April , . . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. . Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). PAGEBREAK Exhibit Number Description . List Significant Subsidiaries. . Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Item . Executive Compensation Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item . Controls and Procedures PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - Signatures PAGEBREAK link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Business" Item . Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97 \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Forward-Looking Statements.\x94 General Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. and our sellers list millions unique new, used and collectible items categories such apparel and accessories, electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs, zShops and Auctions, any business individual can sell virtually anything Amazon com\x92 millions customers. operate six global Web sites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . also own and operate the Internet Movie Database www imdb com (\x93IMDb\x94), which comprehensive and authoritative source information movie and entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb Pro, subscription service designed for the entertainment industry. Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Business Strategy seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online. have designed our Web sites allow millions new, used and collectible products sold and other businesses and individuals worldwide. product our Web sites may listed for sale simultaneously several different sellers. For instance, product may offered , participant our Merchants@ program and business individual selling new, used collectible version the product through Amazon Marketplace, zShops Auctions. also offer certain -commerce services other businesses through our Merchant com and Syndicated Stores programs. Lowering Prices endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. strive improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs that can afford pass along these savings our customers the form lower prices. believe this strategy lowering prices will, over time, increase unit growth and lead further efficiencies. PAGEBREAK Amazon com Retail are the seller record our Web sites for broad range new products, including electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, software, computer and video games, cell phones, tools and hardware and outdoor living items. purchase these products from vendors and fulfill them either through our fulfillment centers through outsourced fulfillment providers. Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace Programs Our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs allow other businesses and individuals offer their new, used and collectible products for sale our Web sites. Their products are fully integrated our Web sites and are purchased customers through single checkout process. are not the seller record these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. also sometimes offer fulfillment-related services under this program. Examples our Merchants@ program include our apparel store www amazon com , which offers more than brands, well the Toysrus com, Babiesrus com and Target stores www amazon com . Amazon Marketplace available www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . addition, other businesses and individuals can auction products through our Auction sites and offer products individual specialty stores through our zShops sites. Merchant com Program Through our Merchant com program utilize our -commerce services, features and technologies operate another business\x92 Web site and sell its products under its brand name and URL ( example www target com ). also offer fulfillment-related services through our Merchant com program. are not the seller record, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Syndicated Stores Program Through our Syndicated Stores program, utilize our -commerce services, features and technologies sell our products through another business\x92 Web site using another business\x92 name and URL. Under these arrangements, are the seller record and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service. The other business earns sales commission the products sold. Examples include www cdnow com, www virginmega com, www virginmega , www borders com, www waldenbooks com and www waterstones , among others. Operating Segments Beginning , organized our operations into four principal segments: North America Books, Music and DVD/ Video (\x93BMVD\x94); North America Electronics, Tools and Kitchen (\x93ETK\x94); International; and Services. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements \x97 Note \x97 Segment Information\x94 for additional information regarding our segments. BMVD Segment. This segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through our Syndicated Stores program. Our BMVD segment had net sales $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. , launched our Canada-focused Web site www amazon and launched Syndicated Stores www cdnow com and www waldenbooks com . addition, added -store pickup PAGEBREAK our www borders com Syndicated Store and added over , magazine, newspaper and newsletter titles our Magazine store www amazon com . ETK Segment. This segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through our Syndicated Stores program. Our ETK segment had net sales $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. During , launched our Office Depot store www amazon com . International Segment. This segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and product revenues from stores offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Our International segment had net sales $ billion, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon each launched Amazon Marketplace. addition, the Syndicated Store www virginmega was launched, and www amazon launched magazine and periodicals store. Services Segment. This segment consists commissions, fees and other amounts earned from our services business, including our Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such our apparel store, the Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com , well our commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The Services segment had net sales $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. , launched our apparel store which now has more than popular brands clothing, shoes and accessories offered our Merchants@ program participants. addition, launched www target com under our Merchant com program. Amazon com Web Sites Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing feature-rich content, secure and trusted transaction environment and easy- -use functionality. Our Web sites offer broad selection, low prices, availability, convenience, discovery and fulfillment. Key features include product reviews and other information, Web pages tailored individual customers\x92 preferences, including recommendations and notifications, -Click® technology, secure payment systems, browsing, searching and the ability view selected interior pages over , books with our \x93Look Inside the Book\x94 feature. Our community online users creates feature-rich content, including product reviews and online lists, such wish lists, wedding registries and baby registries desired products and services that others can reference for gift-giving purposes and Listmania lists with accompanying commentary regarding favorite products. PAGEBREAK Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy designed strengthen and broaden the Amazon com brand name, increase customer traffic our Web sites, encourage customers shop many product categories, promote repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. First and foremost, our best marketing efforts are focused improving the customer experience, which drives word- -mouth promotion and repeat customer visits. also deliver personalized Web pages and services and employ variety media, business development activities and promotional methods achieve these goals. benefit from public relations activities and from time time employ various means online and traditional advertising, including -mail, radio, television and print media and direct marketing. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors. direct customers our Web sites through our Associates program, which enables associated Web sites make our products available their audiences with fulfillment performed . Currently, over , Web sites have enrolled our Associates program. addition, offer everyday free shipping option www amazon com for certain orders that exceed specific amount, and offer similar options for our internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses not include our free and reduced shipping offers, view such offers effective marketing tool. Customer Service believe that our ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength our customer service operations, and continually seek improve the Amazon com customer service experience. Customers can use the \x93your-account\x94 website features track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery information and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options and return items. addition these and similar online self-service features, users can contact customer service representatives hours day, seven days week. have automated certain tools used our customer service staff and have plans for further enhancements. currently have customer service personnel working six customer service centers located Tacoma, Washington; Grand Forks, North Dakota; Huntington, West Virginia; Slough, the United Kingdom; Regensburg, Germany; and Sapporo, Japan. addition, have customer-service cosourcing arrangements with certain vendors India, Northern Ireland and the . Fulfillment currently lease and operate . fulfillment facilities New Castle, Delaware; Coffeyville, Kansas; Campbellsville and Lexington, Kentucky; Fernley, Nevada; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. also lease and operate three European fulfillment centers that are located Marston Gate, the United Kingdom; Orleans, France; and Bad Hersfeld, Germany. Japan, Nippon Express, leading courier company, provides fulfillment services for orders from www. mazon under cosourcing arrangement; and Canada, Assured Logistics, affiliate Canada Post, provides outsourced fulfillment services for orders from www amazon . aggregate basis, these fulfillment centers (including the facilities that are leased Nippon Express and Assured Logistics) comprise approximately million square feet warehouse space. addition, currently lease six off-site facilities totaling approximately million square feet space, which support the storage and fulfillment functions our . fulfillment centers. Our fulfillment centers facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. addition, fulfill certain orders through outsourced fulfillment providers. Seasonality Our business generally affected both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage (which generally declines during summer months) and traditional retail seasonality. Traditional retail sales for most our products (including books, music, DVDs, videos, toys and electronics, among others) usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. particular note the fourth quarter seasonal PAGEBREAK effect our sales toys (which are mainly sold through our Merchants@ program relationship with Toysrus com) and electronics. Technology have implemented numerous Web-site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination our own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current strategy focus our development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business and license acquire commercially-developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability and track the progress each order. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Competition The retail environment for our products generally intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, catalog retailers, publishers, distributors and manufacturers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing; ( ) other online -commerce sites; ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers; and ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including Web-site developers and third-party fulfillment and customer-service providers. believe that the principal competitive factors our market segments include selection, price, availability, convenience, information, discovery, brand recognition, personalized services, accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and ability adapt changing conditions. For services offer business and individual sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality our services and tools and speed performance for our services. the market segments which operate continue grow, other companies may also enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered number domain names and been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights . and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights the . and internationally, and have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technologies copyrighted materials, third parties. Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. also employ independent contractors and temporary personnel seasonal basis. None our employees PAGEBREAK represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry intense, particularly for software-development and other technical staff. believe that our future success will depend part our continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com . make available this website under \x93Financial Documents and Annual Reports,\x94 free charge, our annual reports Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - and amendments those reports soon reasonably practicable after electronically file furnish such materials the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could materially adversely affected. Have Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ billion and our stockholders\x92 equity was deficit $ billion. have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception, and may continue incur such losses for the foreseeable future. Have Significant Indebtedness December , , had total long-term indebtedness under our % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93Senior Discount Notes\x94), convertible notes, capitalized-lease obligations and other asset financings $ billion. make annual semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our two tranches convertible notes, which are due and , respectively. Beginning November , will begin make semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes the future; plan for, react , changes technology and our business and competition; and react the event economic downturn. There guarantee that will able meet our debt service obligations. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with covenants our indebtedness, will default. Face Intense Competition The market segments which compete are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including both the retail and -commerce services industries. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors both the retail and -commerce services industries also may able devote more resources technology development and marketing than . Competition the -commerce channel may intensify. Other companies the retail and -commerce service industries may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive PAGEBREAK positions. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may expand into the market segments which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature online retail. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, both. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances and other business relationships with other companies. have entered into agreements provide -commerce services other businesses and plan enter into similar agreements the future. Under such agreements, may perform services such : providing our technology services such search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and initially require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may constrain the number such agreements are able enter into and may affect our ability deliver services under the relevant agreements. fail implement, maintain and develop successfully the various components such arrangements, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing and licensing third party software, hardware and content, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. Therefore, the other business\x92 Web site product services offering not successful, may not receive all the compensation are otherwise due under the agreement may not able maintain the agreement. Moreover, may not able succeed our plans enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. our commercial agreements expire otherwise terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. Some our agreements involve high margin services, such marketing and promotional agreements, and such agreements expire they may replaced, all, agreements involving lower margin services. addition, several past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable meet their obligations . may the future enter into further amendments these agreements encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. addition, our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, joint ventures, investments and business combinations create risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and companies with which have formed strategic alliances; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending terminating such agreements relationships; \x95 difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel combined companies; \x95 problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; and \x95 additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses. PAGEBREAK Our Investments and the Consideration Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Number Risks the past, have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances where perform certain -commerce services, and exchange for our services received cash, equity securities these companies, and additional benefits, such Web site traffic. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales made the other company. some cases, have also made separate investments the other company making cash payment exchange for equity securities that company. may the future make additional investments companies with which already have commercial agreements companies with which enter into new commercial agreements similar arrangements. the extent have received equity securities compensation, fluctuations the value such securities will affect our ultimate realization amounts have received compensation for services. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing revenue recognition these recorded unearned amounts has been changed correspond with the terms the amended agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Our investments equity securities that are not accounted for under the equity method are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 and \x93Other equity investments\x94 our balance sheets. regularly review all our investments public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines fair value. When determine that the decline fair value investment below our accounting basis other-than-temporary, reduce the carrying value the securities hold and record loss the amount any such decline. recent years, securities companies the Internet and -commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. may conclude future quarters that the fair values other these investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline. December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments,\x94 which less than $ million was accounted for under the equity-method. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the fourth quarter our fiscal year. not stock popular products sufficient amounts and fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. may experience decline our shipping margins due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. too many customers access our Web sites within short period time due increased holiday other demand, may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services our customers may unable meet the PAGEBREAK seasonal demand. Finally, , along with our customer service outsourcers, may unable adequately staff customer service centers. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result decline the amount cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities hand. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Rate Growth Due our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability our industry, may not able accurately forecast our rate growth. base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans estimates future net sales and rate growth. Our expenses and investments are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our net sales fall short our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions throughout the world. softening demand, whether caused changes consumer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth. Such attacks and security concerns could create delays and increase the cost product shipments and from , which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability expand our network sellers, and enter into, maintain, renew and amend favorable terms our strategic alliances; \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 our ability acquire merchandise, manage inventory and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction our competitors Web sites, products services; \x95 changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and -commerce; \x95 timing and costs upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the effects strategic alliances, acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability successfully integrate them into our business; \x95 technical difficulties, system downtime interruptions; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 disruptions service shipping carriers; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping promotions; and PAGEBREAK \x95 increase the prices fuel and gasoline, which are used the transportation packages, well increase the prices other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, which are used our operating facilities. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales almost all our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations the financial results the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into . Dollars upon consolidation. exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. addition, our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) are denominated Euros, not . Dollars. When periodically remeasure the principal the % PEACS based fluctuations the Euro/ . Dollar exchange ratio, will record non-cash gains losses \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 our statements operations. Furthermore, have invested some the proceeds from the % PEACS Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities. Accordingly, the . Dollar strengthens compared the Euro, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Past and Planned Future Growth Will Place Significant Strain our Management, Operational and Financial Resources have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will endeavor expand further pursue growth our product and service offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue place significant strain our management, operational and financial resources. also need train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. addition, not expect benefit our newer market segments from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book channel. Our gross profits our newer business activities may lower than our older business activities. addition, may have limited experience new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. the extent pursue strategic alliances facilitate new product service activities, the alliances may not successful. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and negatively affect revenue growth. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack Integration and Redundancy Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access our Web sites directly affects the volume goods sell and the services offer and thus affects our net sales. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. prevent system PAGEBREAK interruptions, continually need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate both increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, would make our product offerings less attractive our customers and our service offerings less attractive third parties. While have backup systems for certain aspects our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage insurance limits compensate for losses from major interruption. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments plan, over time, continue expand our reach international market segments. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized Web sites, stores and other systems. may not succeed these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not profitable sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject number risks inherent selling abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); \x95 import export licensing requirements; \x95 limitations the repatriation funds; \x95 difficulty obtaining distribution and support; \x95 nationalization; \x95 longer receivable cycles; \x95 consumer protection laws and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower level adoption use the Internet and other technologies vital our business and the lack appropriate infrastructure support widespread Internet usage; \x95 lower level credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty developing and simultaneously managing larger number unique foreign operations result distance, language and cultural differences; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; \x95 tax and other laws the . and other jurisdictions; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel continues grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and PAGEBREAK focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand name recognition. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate -commerce other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation distribution. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international market segments. Face Significant Inventory Risk are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, particularly difficult forecast product demand accurately. failure optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make split shipments from one more locations, complimentary upgrades and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery. result our Merchants@ program relationships with Toysrus com, Babiesrus com, Target and other companies, these parties identify, buy, manage and bear the financial risk inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. result, any these parties fail forecast product demand optimize inventory, would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could harmed. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently ship completed orders customers may negatively affected number factors, including dependence limited number shipping companies, inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism acts God. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. Because difficult predict sales volume, may not manage our facilities optimal way, which may result excess insufficient inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. addition, third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality and future procurement their services. Finally, under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability failure these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, PAGEBREAK copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use our proprietary rights inherently difficult, and may not able determine the existence extent any such unauthorized use. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, cannot certain that the steps take protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms which are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. Have Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have relatively short operating history and, -commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : \x95 general economic conditions; \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 new products, services, innovations and strategic developments our competitors , business combinations and investments our competitors ; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes Internet regulation; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 additions departures key personnel; \x95 corporate restructurings, including layoffs closures facilities; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce companies; and PAGEBREAK \x95 news and securities analyst reports and speculation relating new and existing commercial agreements, general business Internet trends our existing future products services. Any these events may cause our stock price rise fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Future volatility our stock price could force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options. This option exchange offer resulted variable accounting treatment for certain our stock options. Variable accounting treatment will result unpredictable stock-based compensation expense dependent fluctuations quoted prices for our common stock. late , implemented restricted stock unit plan, which will our primary vehicle for employee stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price the common stock, which will recognized compensation expense ratably over the corresponding employee service term. Government Regulation the Internet and -commerce Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and -commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, the provision online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and -commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate \x93auctions\x94 and \x93auctioneers\x94 and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops and certain aspects Amazon Marketplace. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. May Subject Liability for Past Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease accordance with current industry practice, not collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments most our goods into states other than Washington and North Dakota. Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record the applicable merchandise and are obligated collect sales tax most states accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. collect Value Added Tax, VAT, for products that are ordered www amazon , www amazon and www amazon and delivered European Union member countries. also collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Japan. addition, Canadian consumption taxes are collected sales products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies which engage -commerce. successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions the . Supreme Court restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit supersede the PAGEBREAK Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. any these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court\x92 constitutional concerns and resulted reversal its current position, could required collect sales and use taxes states other than Washington and North Dakota. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for and could decrease our future sales. Various countries are currently evaluating their VAT positions -commerce transactions. Recently, for example, the European Union (\x93 \x94) enacted directive requiring that businesses non- countries selling digital products and services resident consumers collect and remit VAT the country the consumer\x92 residence. This directive will become effective July , , will result additional VAT collection obligations and administrative burdens and may decrease our future sales customers the . Future VAT legislation changes our business model may have similar impacts. Source Significant Portion Our Inventory from Few Vendors Although continue increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, still source significant amount inventory from relatively few vendors. During , purchased over % all inventory purchases from single vendor, Ingram Book Group. other vendors account for over %. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current vendors were stop selling merchandise acceptable terms, may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some our products, such toys, tools, hardware, computers, cell phones, and kitchen and houseware products, may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death property damage caused such products, and may require take actions such product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also may sell products that may indirectly increase our exposure product liability claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our suppliers not indemnify from product liability. Could Liable for Breaches Security Our Web Site and Fraudulent Activities Users Our Amazon Payments Program fundamental requirement for -commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the provision online payment services and could require changes the way this business conducted. guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and may unable prevent users Amazon Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not made seller fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not shipped buyer. Our liability risk will increase larger fraction our sellers use Amazon Payments. Any costs incur result liability because our guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality Amazon Payments depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, Amazon Payments will not viable (and our businesses that use Amazon Payments may not viable). PAGEBREAK May Not Able Adapt Quickly Enough Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology the -commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet Medium for Commerce Uncertain Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce recent phenomenon and subject high level uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. use the Internet medium for commerce does not continue grow grows slower rate than anticipate, our sales would lower than expected and our business would harmed. Could Liable for Unlawful Fraudulent Activities Users Our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops Services may unable prevent users our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner. may face civil criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities our users under . laws and the laws and regulations other countries. addition, are unsuccessful preventing our users from providing content that either illegal which violates the proprietary rights others, may result liability . Any costs incur result liability relating the sale unlawful goods, the unlawful sale goods, the fraudulent receipt goods the fraudulent collection payments could harm our business. running our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services, rely sellers make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and buyers pay the agreed purchase price. not take responsibility for delivery payment goods and, while can suspend terminate the accounts users who fail fulfill their delivery obligations, cannot require users make payments deliver goods. not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded other users except through our guarantee program. Under our guarantee program, fraudulent activities our users, such the fraudulent receipt goods and the fraudulent collection payments, may create liability for . PAGEBREAK Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors January , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Richard . Dalzell Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software and Chief Information Officer Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and again from October the present. Richard . Dalzell. . Dalzell has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November . From October until November , . Dalzell was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer and prior that, from joining Amazon com August until October , was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Mark . Peek. . Peek has served Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since July . From November July , served Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April November , served Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November . From joining Amazon com February until November , . Piacentini was Senior Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\x92 operations Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November . Previously, . Szkutak held variety positions General Electric ., including Chief Financial Officer Lighting from September September , Finance Director Plastics Europe from March September , and Executive Vice President \x97 Finance Asset Management (formerly known Investments) from May March . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service, since January . From October until January , . Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior that had been Vice President and General Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon com September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit PAGEBREAK from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary since March . She served Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from July until March . . Wilson joined Amazon com March Associate General Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance. Prior joining Amazon com, she was partner the law firm Perkins Coie LLP. Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director Madrona Venture Group . John Doerr General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Mark . Hansen Chairman and CEO Fleming Companies, Inc. Thomas . Ryder Chairman and CEO Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer President and -Chair the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation link2 "Item . Properties" Item . Properties not own any real estate. Our principal office facilities the . are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire various times through July . Our corporate office facilities (excluding customer service office space) the . comprise total , square feet. Additionally, have , square feet office space that subleased vacant that remain obligated under lease agreements that expire various times through April . Our . warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed six fulfillment centers located New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Lexington and Campbellsville, Kentucky; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These fulfillment centers comprise total approximately million square feet. Our fulfillment center leases expire from through . also lease six facilities located near our fulfillment centers, comprising approximately million square feet, which use for off-site storage and shipping. These offsite storage and shipping facilities are under relatively short-term lease agreements that expire various times through May ; following expiration, intend renew certain these leases consolidate into new offsite facilities, both. Our . customer service operations occupy approximately , square feet office space and are located Tacoma, Washington; Huntington, West Virginia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. The lease terms these facilities expire January , April and November , respectively. Our data-center facilities have , combined square feet (including approximately , square feet vacant space one facility). These facilities are under leases that expire from through . lease additional properties outside the ., including approximately , square feet corporate office space (excluding customer service office space) Germany, France, Japan and the United Kingdom (which excludes approximately , square feet vacant office space Germany); approximately , combined square feet available fulfillment center space Germany, France and the United Kingdom (which excludes approximately , square feet our United Kingdom facility that currently subleased marketed for sublease); and approximately , combined square feet customer service space Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom. The fulfillment centers Germany, PAGEBREAK the United Kingdom and France are located Bad Hersfeld, Marston Gate and Orleans, respectively, and the lease terms expire December , October and March , respectively. January , closed our fulfillment centers McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington. Our lease for the Seattle facility, which covers approximately , square feet ( portion which currently subleased) will expire April . recently negotiated termination agreement for our McDonough facility lease that accelerated the termination date December for portion the building and March for the remainder the building (contingent our payment the final termination fee). December , , the lease for our McDonough facility covered approximately , square feet. believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present and anticipated near term needs. link2 "Item . Legal Proceedings" Item . Legal Proceedings April , , received request from the SEC staff for the voluntary production documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales our common stock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, February and , . are cooperating with the SEC staff\x92 continuing inquiry. number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). October , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors and certain third parties, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through July , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. August , , the Trustee for the Creditors\x92 Trust for Living com instituted adversary proceeding against subsidiary the Company the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District Texas. The plaintiff alleges that Living com\x92 creditors are entitled contractual recovery approximately $ million fees that Living com had previously paid primarily issuing Living com stock the Company. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against the Company and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The Complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law unjust enrichment. The Complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest and declaratory relief. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, future results operations, financial position cash flows particular period. From time time, are subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual PAGEBREAK property rights. currently are not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believe will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect our business, financial condition operating results. link2 "Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders" Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our stockholders during the fourth quarter . link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Market for the Registrant&# ; Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters" Item . Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders January , , there were , stockholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, are restricted from paying cash dividends under our Senior Discount Notes. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. link2 "Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data" Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained herein Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis PAGEBREAK Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. and for the Years Ended December , ( ) ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted net loss per share( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted net loss per share( ) , , , , , Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Marketable securities , , , , , Total assets , , , , , , , , , Long-term debt , , , , , , , , , Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) ( , , ) ( , , ) ( , ) , , ( ) Reflects restatement for business acquisition accounted for under the pooling- -interests method. ( ) For further discussion loss per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 and \x93\x97 Note \x97 Earnings (Loss) Per Share.\x94 link2 "Item . Management&# ; Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations future pro forma profitability, net sales, cash flows from operations and free cash flows, all which are inherently difficult predict. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, the rate growth the economy general, the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, the amount that invest new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, risks inventory management, the degree which enter into, maintain and develop relationships with other businesses, fluctuations the value securities and non-cash payments receive connection with such transactions, foreign exchange risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , PAGEBREAK \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Results Operations Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments conditions. Significant Accounting Policies Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost market value, which requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition (whether through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations), and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, which applied consistently from period period, record valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. Revenue Recognition generally recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable and collectibility reasonably assured. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , \x93Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent,\x94 determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary obligor transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier (commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point\x94). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns) are estimated using historical experience. PAGEBREAK periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage discounts off current purchases (\x93current discount offers\x94), offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase (\x93inducement offers\x94) and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction and are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Commissions received through our Amazon Marketplace and Merchants@ programs and amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recorded net amounts since are acting agent. Amounts earned are recognized net sales when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. earn revenues from services primarily entering into business- -business commercial agreements, including providing our technology services such search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. compensation for the services provide under these agreements, generally receive cash. the past, have accepted compensation under these arrangements equity securities, combination equity securities and cash. Generally, the fair value the equity consideration received measured when the agreement executed, but the extent that the equity consideration subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon execution the agreement, the fair value the equity consideration and corresponding revenue determined the date that the forfeiture provision lapses the vesting provision lapses. Subsequent initial measurement fair value, appreciation decline the fair value such securities will affect our ultimate realization equity securities received compensation; however, any such change does not affect the amount revenue recognized over the term the agreement. generally recognize revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenues associated with non-refundable advance payments) straight-line basis over the period during which perform services under these agreements, commencing the launch date the service. receive non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until service commences. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. have the past, and may the future, amend our agreements with certain the companies with which have commercial agreements modify future cash proceeds received , modify the service term our commercial agreements, both. Although these amendments generally not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing future revenue recognition changes correspond with the terms amended agreements. These amendments future amendments will affect the timing and amount revenues recognized connection with these commercial agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Fair Value Equity Securities Received Compensation Under Commercial Agreements For equity securities public companies received compensation under commercial agreements, generally determine fair value based the quoted market price the time enter into the underlying commercial agreement and adjust such market price appropriately significant restrictions marketability exist. Because observable market price does not exist for equity securities private companies, our estimates fair value such securities are more subjective than for the securities PAGEBREAK public companies. For significant transactions involving equity securities private companies, obtain and consider independent, third-party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use variety methodologies estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities publicly traded companies similar lines business, applying price multiples estimated future operating results for the private company, and utilizing estimated discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the otherwise fair value factor that intended account for restrictions control and marketability where appropriate. Using these valuations and other information available , such our knowledge the industry and the company itself, determine the estimated fair value the securities received. Accounting for Goodwill and Certain Other Intangibles Effective July , , adopted certain provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , \x93Business Combinations,\x94 and effective January , , adopted the full provisions SFAS . and SFAS . , \x93Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.\x94 SFAS . requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets apart from goodwill. evaluated our goodwill and intangibles acquired prior June , using the criteria SFAS . , which resulted $ million other intangibles (comprised entirely assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill January , . SFAS . requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. evaluated our intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS . prescribes two-phase process for impairment testing goodwill. The first phase screens for impairment, while the second phase ( necessary) measures the impairment. completed our first phase impairment analysis and found instances impairment our recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary during . subsequent indicators impairment have been noted. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated commencement timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Results Operations Net Sales Net sales include the selling price consumer products sold , less promotional discounts, rebates and sales returns; outbound shipping charges billed our customers; commissions and other amounts earned from sales new and used products Amazon Marketplace; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof) for sales retail products through our Merchants@ program, such Toysrus com and Target stores www amazon com ; the selling price consumer products sold through our Syndicated Stores program, such www borders com ; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof) connection with our Merchant com program, such www target com ; amounts earned from third parties who utilize our technology services such search, browse and personalization; and amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Net sales were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. The increases net sales were primarily attributable our International segment and our BMVD segment, which increased $ million and $ million , respectively. The increases net sales were primarily PAGEBREAK attributable our International segment and our ETK segment, which increased $ million and $ million, respectively. During , revenues improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound). Net sales for our BMVD segment were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively, representing increase % for comparison with decline % for . This segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD/ video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from Amazon Marketplace sales these products, new, used collectible, amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement growth rates for our BMVD segment comparison with reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing efforts reduce prices for customers, including increases customer discounts books and the introduction everyday free shipping www amazon com for certain orders. Also contributing the increase growth rates for BMVD are increases unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our ETK segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. This segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement growth rates for our ETK segment comparison with reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing efforts reduce prices for customers, including increases customer discounts through price changes and rebate programs and the introduction everyday free shipping www amazon com for certain orders. Also contributing the increase growth rates for ETK are increases unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our International segment were $ billion, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. anticipate that the revenue base our International segment increases, the percentage growth rates will likely decline over time. During , revenues improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound). This segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . The increase net sales from our International segment results from, each the four internationally-focused Web sites, increase unit sales ( part due the introduction Amazon Marketplace www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ), and our continuing efforts reduce prices customers through increases customer discounts and free and reduced-rate shipping offers. The future growth our International segment may fluctuate significantly with changes foreign exchange rates. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Have Foreign Exchange Risk.\x94 Net sales for our Services segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and %, respectively. This segment consists PAGEBREAK commissions, fees and other amounts earned from our services business, including our Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such our apparel store, the Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com , well our commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The increase net sales from our Services segment results from amounts earned through our Merchants@ program and our Merchant com program, offset the expiration certain our marketing and promotional agreements. The amount compensation receive under certain these services agreements dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. See Item Part \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships.\x94 Shipping revenue (which consists outbound shipping charges our customers) across all operating segments was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Shipping revenue does not include any commissions other amounts earned from Amazon Marketplace. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified amount, and lowered this threshold several times throughout the year. offer similar shipping options for our internationally-focused Web sites and may offer other free reduced-fee shipping options over time. These shipping offers reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and cause our gross margins retail sales decline. view these shipping offers effective marketing tool. First quarter net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %. For the full year , net sales are expected grow over %. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Gross Profit Gross profit net sales less the cost sales, which consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges , packaging supplies and certain costs associated with our service revenues. Costs associated with our Services segment revenues and classified cost services generally include fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf third-party sellers, costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Effective January , , prospectively changed our inventory costing method the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase product inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the statements operations . evaluated the effect the change each quarter during and determined such effect less than $ million individually and the aggregate. determined this change preferable under accounting principles generally accepted the United States since, among other reasons, facilitates our record keeping process, significantly improves our ability provide cost-efficient fulfillment services other companies part our services offering and results increased consistency with others our industry. Gross profit was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. Increases gross profit primarily correspond with increases units sold (including increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace), improvements transportation and inventory management and improvements product sourcing, offset price reductions books and electronics, the expiration certain high-margin marketing and promotional agreements, and our free and reduced-rate shipping offers. Increases gross profit primarily correspond with improvements inventory management and product sourcing, and lesser extent, increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace. Our overall gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including PAGEBREAK our mix sales during the period (including sales through Amazon Marketplace), competitive pricing decisions and general efforts reduce prices for our customers over time, well the extent which provide free and reduced-rate shipping offers. Gross profit for our BMVD segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. The slight improvement gross margin corresponds with the increase higher margin sales through Amazon Marketplace, improvements transportation costs and inventory management, and continued improvements product sourcing, offset price reductions and our everyday free shipping offer. Gross profit for our ETK segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was % for and and % for . , improvements product sourcing, inventory management and transportation management, along with lower transportation costs, were offset price reductions and our everyday free shipping offer. , improvement gross margin primarily reflects improvements product sourcing and inventory management. During , sales products through Amazon Marketplace increased significantly comparison the prior year. product sales through Amazon Marketplace continue increase, anticipate improvement gross margin, offset the extent offer additional broader price reductions, free shipping offers and other promotions. Gross profit for our International segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was % for and , and % for . The increase gross profit reflects increases units sold each our four internationally-focused Web sites included this segment ( part due the introduction Amazon Marketplace www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ), offset continuing efforts reduce prices for our customers. During , gross profit improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound).The increase gross profit reflects increases units sold our www amazon and www amazon sites, well the launch our www amazon and www amazon sites during the second half . Gross profit for our Services segment was $ million for and and $ million for , representing flat gross profit and increase % for . Costs associated with our service revenues generally include fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf other businesses, including costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. Gross profit from our Services segment largely corresponds with revenues from our commercial agreements, which includes our Merchant com program and, the extent product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, the Merchants@ program, well amounts earned through miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The decline gross margin from our Services segment relates service costs classified cost sales resulting from the shift the mix our commercial relationships towards agreements that incorporate broader range services, including fulfillment. Also contributing the decline Services gross margin was the expiration certain high-margin marketing and promotional agreements. expect Services segment margins will decline again since high-margin marketing arrangements are expected represent lower percentage our overall revenue mix for this segment. See Item Part \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships.\x94 Shipping loss across all operating segments was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The loss from shipping primarily reflects the free and reduced-rate shipping offers, offset part cost reductions from efficiencies our outbound shipping. continue measure our shipping results relative their effect our overall financial results, with the viewpoint that shipping PAGEBREAK promotions are effective marketing tool. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified purchase thresholds. offer similar shipping option for our internationally-focused Web sites and may offer other free reduced-fee shipping options over time. expect continue offering our customers free shipping options which reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and negatively affect gross margins. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-party -sourcers that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain Services segment fulfillment-related costs incurred behalf other businesses are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Fulfillment costs were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The improvement fulfillment costs percentage net sales results from improvements productivity and accuracy, the increase units fulfilled helping leverage the fixed-cost portion our fulfillment network, decline customer service contacts per order resulting from improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features available our Web sites. These improvements were offset, part, increases employee wages and benefits and credit card interchange fees associated with Amazon Marketplace, which represent higher percent commissions earned relative amounts earned from retail sales our inventory. Additionally, the comparisons between and (and lesser extent the comparisons between and ) were affected the closures our fulfillment centers McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington, and customer service centers The Hague, Netherlands and Seattle, Washington. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. Marketing expenses, net -operative marketing reimbursements, were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Declines expense for marketing-related activities reflect management efforts cut ineffective marketing programs, well reduced rates charged for some online marketing activities. These decreases are partially offset increased investment marketing channels considered most effective driving incremental net sales, such targeted online advertising through various Web portals and our Associates program. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified amount. offer similar shipping options for our internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses not include our free and reduced shipping offers, view such offers effective marketing tool. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The decline absolute dollars spent for each comparative period primarily reflects our migration technology platform that utilizes less-costly technology infrastructure, well improved expense management and general price reductions most expense categories. expect continue invest technology and improvements our Web sites, which may PAGEBREAK include, but are not limited , hiring additional employees, offering additional Web site features and product categories our customers and implementing additional commercial relationships, well potentially continuing our international expansion. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, human resources, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The decline general and administrative costs primarily attributable decline facility and depreciation costs resulting from our operational restructuring plan that consolidated our corporate office locations, and through continued efforts improve efficiency. The decline general and administrative costs attributable reductions most administrative expense categories, including employee-related, facility and depreciation costs, supplies and other miscellaneous charges, well decreased costs result our operational restructuring. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment certain stock options and restricted stock issued certain key employees, well amounts associated with our newly-implemented restricted stock unit program. Stock-based compensation also includes, lesser extent, portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure certain key employees acquired businesses. Under our restricted stock unit program, which commenced the fourth quarter , award restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding employee service period. the extent restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation associated with our restricted stock unit program was $ million . The number shares common stock subject outstanding vested and unvested employee stock awards (including restricted stock units) was approximately million and million, % and % our outstanding common stock, December , and , respectively. During the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options, which resulted variable accounting treatment for approximately million stock options December , , including approximately million options granted under the exchange offer that have exercise prices $ and expire the third quarter . Variable accounting treatment results unpredictable and potentially significant charges credits recorded \x93Stock-based compensation,\x94 dependent fluctuations quoted prices for our common stock. have quantified the hypothetical effect \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 associated with various quoted prices our common stock, which are unable forecast accurately, using sensitivity analysis for our outstanding stock options subject variable accounting December , . have provided this information give additional insight into the volatility will experience our future results operations the extent that the quoted price for our common stock above $ . This sensitivity analysis not prediction future performance the quoted prices our common stock. Using the following hypothetical market prices our common stock above $ (including the actual expense associated with options exercised), our hypothetical cumulative compensation expense PAGEBREAK December , resulting from variable accounting treatment would have been follows ( thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): Hypothetical . Actual Cumulative Hypothetical Increase Hypothetical Market Hypothetical Cumulative Compensation Expense Over $ Price per Share Compensation Expense December , % $ $ , $ ( , ) % , ( , ) % , , % , , % , , Actual variable-accounting related compensation could differ significantly from the above illustration instances where options are exercised during period prices that differ from the closing stock price for the reporting period. December , , the Company\x92 common stock closed $ , representing increase % over $ . Cumulative compensation expense associated with variable accounting treatment was $ million, which $ million associated with options exercised and therefore longer subject future variability. the end any fiscal quarter the quoted price our common stock lower than the quoted price the end the previous fiscal quarter, the extent previously-recorded amounts relate unvested portions options that were cancelled, compensation expense associated with variable accounting will recalculated using the cumulative expense method and may result net benefit our results operations. Amortization Goodwill and Other Intangibles Amortization goodwill and other intangibles was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The decline amortization goodwill and intangibles primarily results from our adoption SFAS . , which resulted $ million intangible assets, comprised assembled workforce intangibles, being subsumed into goodwill, and our adoption SFAS . , which requires that goodwill longer amortized. The decline amortization goodwill and intangibles results from impairment loss $ million recorded the fourth quarter associated with certain our business acquisitions. This impairment loss reduced our recorded basis goodwill and other intangibles and had the effect reducing amortization expense during . Restructuring-Related and Other Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. the first quarter , announced and began implementation our operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline our organizational structure, consolidate certain our fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation our Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure our McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation our Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure our customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however may adjust our restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. During , revised our estimates ongoing net lease obligations for our facilities Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due weakness these real estate markets; reached termination agreement with the landlord our leased fulfillment center facility McDonough, Georgia, PAGEBREAK which requires payments totaling $ million ( which $ million was paid December , with the balance payable the first quarter ); and permanently closed our fulfillment center Seattle, Washington. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees, and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance Balance December , Subsequent December , Due Within Due After Accruals, Net Payments Months( ) Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) , , , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 respectively, our consolidated balance sheets. Cash payments resulting from our operational restructuring were $ million and $ million for and , respectively. estimate, based currently available information, the remaining net cash outflows associated with our restructuring-related commitments will follows ( thousands): Leases Other Total Years Ending December , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , \x97 , , \x97 , Thereafter , \x97 , Total estimated cash outflows $ , $ , $ , PAGEBREAK Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Restructuring-related and other expenses primarily relate impairments goodwill and other intangibles recorded connection with certain our business acquisitions. Income (Loss) from Operations Our results from operations were income $ million and losses $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The improvement operating results comparison with the prior year was attributable increase gross profit; reduction certain operating costs including marketing, technology and content and general and administrative; decline restructuring-related charges; well decline amortization goodwill and other intangibles primarily due the adoption SFAS . ; offset stock-based compensation charges associated primarily with certain our employee stock options under variable accounting treatment. are unable forecast accurately the effect our future reported results associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Interest income was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, and interest expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Interest income declined comparison with primarily result declining interest rates, offset part increases the average balance cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income declined comparison with due primarily decreases the average balance cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest expense primarily related our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94), and our Senior Discount Notes. The increase interest expense for comparison with primarily associated with our February issuance the % PEACS. December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion. Beginning November , will begin make semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK Other Gains (Losses), Net Other gains (losses), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gains (losses) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ , $ \x97 Gains (losses) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , ( , ) \x97 Other-than-temporary impairment losses equity investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Gains sales equity investments, net , \x97 \x97 Gains from terminations commercial contracts \x97 , , Net gains from acquisition investments third parties \x97 , Warrant remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) \x97 $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees Equity losses equity-method investees represents our share losses companies which have investments that give the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. This influence generally defined ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %, although other factors, such representation our investee\x92 Board Directors and the effect commercial arrangements, are considered determining whether the equity method accounting appropriate. Equity-method losses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Our basis equity-method investments was less than $ million, and $ million December , and , respectively. equity-method losses are only recorded until the underlying investments are reduced zero, expect, absent additional investments, equity-method losses future periods insignificant. Income Taxes have provided for current and deferred . federal, state and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where certain our subsidiaries produce taxable income. December , , have recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. have provided valuation allowance for the remainder our deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. December , , had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begins expire . Approximately $ billion our net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Net Loss Net loss was $ million, $ million and $ billion for , and , respectively. Year over year improvements during and result from variety factors, including growth net PAGEBREAK sales, overall declines operating costs (offset stock-based compensation charges associated primarily with certain our employee stock options under variable accounting treatment), lower impairment charges associated with our investment portfolio and declines losses from equity-method investments, offset losses arising from the remeasurement our % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars. Although reported fourth quarter net income $ million, believe that this positive net income result should not viewed material positive event and not predictive future results for variety reasons. For example, excluding the $ million restructuring-related gain associated with our McDonough, Georgia, fulfillment center lease-termination agreement, would have reported net loss the fourth quarter . Alternatively, excluding the $ million stock-based compensation charge associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options that resulted from increase our stock price during the fourth quarter, excluding the $ million foreign exchange loss the remeasurement our PEACS from Euros . Dollars, would have reported more net income the fourth quarter . are unable forecast the effect our future reported results certain items, including the stock-based compensation charges credits associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options that will result from fluctuations our stock price, and the gain loss associated with our % PEACS that will result from fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Unearned Revenue During and , activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , $ , Cash received accounts receivable , Fair value equity securities received Amortization revenue ( , ) Contract termination ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , During , recorded previously unearned revenue associated with the termination our commercial agreement with Kozmo com, which was included \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, amounts associated with the Kozmo com commercial agreement were previously recognized \x93Net sales\x94 during any period. Pro Forma Results Operations provide certain pro forma information regarding our results from operations, which excludes the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 stock-based compensation, \x95 amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and \x95 restructuring-related and other. PAGEBREAK also provide certain pro forma information regarding our net loss, which excludes, addition the line items described above, the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 other gains (losses), net, \x95 equity losses equity-method investees, net, and \x95 cumulative effect change accounting principle. This pro forma information not presented accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Pro forma results are provided complement results provided accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Our management uses such pro forma measures internally evaluate our performance, prepare and measure our operating plan and manage our operations. Our management believes pro forma measures provide useful information investors regarding our financial condition and results operations because pro forma results exclude certain items that are unpredictable and outside our control, not settled cash, both, such the effects foreign exchange rates \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 and the effect the changes the price the Company\x92 common stock \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Other amounts, such charges associated with our operational restructuring, are excluded provide our management and investors information relating ongoing operations. All pro forma results are derived from information presented our financial statements. For information about our financial results, reported accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\x94 PAGEBREAK Full year and corresponding quarterly pro forma results operations, and certain cash flow information for , and , were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income from operations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Pro forma net income (loss) $ , $ , $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma income from operations percentage net sales % % % % % Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic income (loss) per share , , , , , Shares used computation pro forma diluted income (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income (loss) from operations $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma income (loss) from operations percentage net sales ( )% % ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic income (loss) per share , , , , , Shares used computation pro forma diluted income (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma loss from operations $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma loss from operations percentage net sales ( )% ( )% ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic and diluted loss per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK The following reconciliation our pro forma results for , and . Quarterly reconciliations are consistent with full-year presentation. Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Pro Forma Pro Forma Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma ( ( ( thousands) thousands) thousands) Net sales $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , Cost sales , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , Gross profit , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Marketing , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Technology and content , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , General and administrative , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Stock-based compensation , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Restructuring- related and other , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Total operating expenses , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , Income (loss) from operations , , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Interest income , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Interest expense ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other income (expense), net , \x97 , ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other gains (losses), net ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Total non- operating expenses, net ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Income (loss) before equity losses equity- method investees ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , , ) , ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Income (loss) before change accounting principle ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , , ) , ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( , ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic income (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Diluted income (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Shares used computation income (loss) per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , ( ) accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. PAGEBREAK First quarter pro forma net profit expected between $ million and $ million, between $ per share and $ per share. Pro forma net profit for full year expected over $ million, over $ per share. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $ million, $ million and $ million, and our marketable securities balance was $ million, $ million and $ million December , , and , respectively. Combined cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $ billion, $ million and $ billion December , , and , respectively. Equity securities $ million are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 December , , the value which may fluctuate significantly. Equity securities $ million and $ million were included \x93Marketable securities\x94 December , and , respectively. have pledged portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign-exchange rate risk portion our % PEACS; and some our real estate lease agreements. The amount marketable securities are required pledge pursuant the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value the swap obligation. The change the total amount collateral pledged under these agreements was follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Swap Real Estate Credit Agreement Leases Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , December , , our principal commitments consisted long-term indebtedness totaling $ billion related primarily our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes; trade payables $ million; and accrued expenses and other liabilities $ million, which includes current restructuring-related obligations $ million. Additionally, are scheduled under certain our long-term debt obligations make periodic interest payments through the aggregate $ million, and are obligated under operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements the aggregate $ million and $ million, respectively. The following are our contractual commitments associated with our operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing agreements ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , PAGEBREAK Thereafter Total Other commitments: Debt principal and other( ) , , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases , , , , , , , Marketing agreements , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) Principal and interest payments due under the Company\x92 % PEACS, excluding those payments with fixed exchange ratio under the currency swap hedge arrangement, will fluctuate based the Euro/ . Dollar exchange ratio. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Long-term capital lease obligations $ Net cash provided used operating activities consists net loss offset certain adjustments not affecting current-period cash flows, and the effect changes working capital. Adjustments net loss determine cash flows from operations include depreciation and amortization, equity losses investees and other items not affecting cash flows the current period. Net cash provided operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ million that was offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ million, and changes working capital $ million. Adjustments not affecting cash flows were primarily associated with losses resulting from the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars, depreciation fixed assets, stock-based compensation and non-cash interest expense. Net cash used operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ million, offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ million and changes working capital $ million. Net cash used operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ billion, offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ billion and changes working capital $ million. Cash used investing activities during was $ million, consisting net purchases marketable securities $ million and purchases fixed assets $ million. Cash used investing activities during was $ million, consisting net purchases marketable securities PAGEBREAK $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquired assets $ million. Cash provided investing activities during was $ million, consisting net sales marketable securities $ million offset cash paid for investments $ million and purchases fixed assets $ million. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million, consisting primarily proceeds from exercises stock options, offset repayments long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million, consisting primarily proceeds from the issuance common stock America Online well exercises stock options, offset repayments long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million consisting primarily net proceeds from issuance million Euros % PEACS. expect cash proceeds from exercises employee stock options decline over time plan issue restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee stock-based awards. believe that current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. addition, expect have positive free cash flow (operating cash flow less purchases fixed assets) for fiscal year . However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution our stockholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable , all. link2 "Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk" Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. PAGEBREAK The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts were follows ( thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Commercial paper and short- term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts are follows ( thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate \x97 % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % PAGEBREAK Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Treasury notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed- income securities $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , December , , have long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes, which are due , and , respectively. Our payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised interest payments, principal payments, combination thereof. The market value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, and the fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from five our internationally-focused Web sites ( www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales generated from these Web sites, well most the related expenses incurred, are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding Web sites. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada, respectively. Results operations from our foreign subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed foreign exchange fluctuations the financial results these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars average rates prevailing during the year upon consolidation. exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. The effect foreign exchange fluctuations for our internationally-focused Web sites increased net sales $ million and increased results from operations $ million. December , , were also exposed foreign exchange risk related Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities (\x93Euro Investments\x94), well our % PEACS. December , the Euro Investments, classified available-for-sale, had balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Our % PEACS have outstanding principal balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ), which million Euros principal hedged. Based the outstanding Euro Investment balance December , , assumed %, % and % strengthening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result corresponding decline the total fair value such investments approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Based the outstanding (unhedged) % PEACS\x92 principal balance million Euros December , , assumed %, % and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result corresponding currency losses approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively, recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 hedge the foreign exchange risk our % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros and portion the interest payments using cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, PAGEBREAK agreed pay inception and receive upon maturity million Euros exchange for receiving inception and paying maturity $ million. addition, agreed receive February each year million Euros corresponding with interest payments million Euros the % PEACS and, simultaneously, pay $ million. This agreement cancelable, whole part, our option cost after February , our common stock price (converted into Euros) greater than equal Euros, the minimum conversion price the % PEACS. account for the swap agreement cash flow hedge the risk exchange rate fluctuations the debt principal and interest. Gains and losses the swap agreement are initially recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 our balance sheets and recognized \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 our statements operations upon the recognition the corresponding currency losses and gains the remeasurement the % PEACS. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments.\x94 invest the stock and warrants both private and public companies, including companies with which have formed commercial relationships, primarily for strategic purposes. December , , held investments publicly-traded and privately held companies with recorded basis $ million and $ million, respectively. regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During , recorded impairment losses totaling $ million write-down several our equity securities fair value. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, % and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. PAGEBREAK link2 "Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements Operations Consolidated Statements Cash Flows Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Notes Consolidated Financial Statements PAGEBREAK REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the full provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Business Combinations, and . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective January , . The Company also adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, effective January , . addition, discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out method accounting. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December , December , ( thousands, except per share data) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Fixed assets, net , , Goodwill, net , , Other intangibles, net , , Other equity investments , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , , $ , , LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Unearned revenue , , Interest payable , , Current portion long-term debt and other , , Total current liabilities , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 deficit: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares \x97 , Issued and outstanding shares \x97 none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares \x97 , , Issued and outstanding shares \x97 , and , shares, respectively , , Additional paid- capital , , , , Deferred stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) , ( , ) Accumulated deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total stockholders\x92 deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 deficit $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS Years Ended December , ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Stock-based compensation( ) , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Restructuring-related and other , , , Total operating expenses , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net , ( , ) ( , ) Other gains (losses), net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Loss before equity losses equity-method investees ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Loss before change accounting principle ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) \x97 Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Basic and diluted loss per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation loss per share: Basic and diluted , , , ( ) Components stock-based compensation: Fulfillment $ , $ $ ( , ) Marketing , ( ) Technology and content , , , General and administrative , ( ) $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS Years Ended December , ( thousands) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Equity losses equity-method investees, net , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Non-cash restructuring-related and other , , , Gain sale marketable securities, net ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other losses (gains), net , , , Non-cash interest expense and other , , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) , \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( , ) , ( , ) Accounts payable , ( , ) , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , , Unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest payable , ( ) , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , ( , ) ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and Web site development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investments equity-method investees and other investments \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) , FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercise stock options and other , , , Proceeds from issuance common stock, net issuance costs \x97 , \x97 Proceeds from long-term debt and other \x97 , , Repayment capital lease obligations and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing costs \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net cash provided financing activities , , , Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) ( , ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements $ , $ , $ , Equity securities received for commercial agreements \x97 , Stock issued connection with business acquisitions and minority investments \x97 , , Cash paid for interest , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY (DEFICIT) Accumulated Total Common Stock Additional Deferred Other Stockholders\x92 Paid- Stock-Based Comprehensive Accumulated Equity Shares Amount Capital Compensation Income (Loss) Deficit (Deficit) ( thousands) Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , , ) ( , , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , , ) Issuance capital stock, net issuance costs , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Public offering equity-method investee \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments \x97 \x97 ( , ) , \x97 \x97 ( , ) Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized losses Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Issuance capital stock, net issuance costs , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Repayments note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments , , ( , ) \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized gains Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 \x97 ( , ) Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Variable accounting and other stock compensation amortization \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , , ) $ ( , , ) See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . The Company seeks offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. The Company and its sellers list new, used and collectible items categories such apparel and accessories, electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through Amazon Marketplace, the Merchants@ program, zShops and Auctions, participating businesses individuals can sell their products Amazon com\x92 customers. The Company operates six global Web sites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . The Company also owns and operates the Internet Movie Database www imdb com (\x93IMDb\x94), which source information movie and entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb Pro, subscription service designed for the entertainment industry. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities, incentive discount offers, valuation investments, taxes and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Business Combinations For business combinations that have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired included goodwill the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company classifies all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost market value. The Company makes judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition (whether through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations), and PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, which applied consistently from period period, the Company records valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount its inventories lower cost market value. Accounting Changes Inventories Effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the consolidated statements operations. The Company evaluated the effect the change each quarter and determined such effect less than $ million individually and the aggregate. The Company determined this change preferable under accounting principles generally accepted the United States since, among other reasons, facilitates the Company\x92 record keeping process, significantly improves its ability provide cost-efficient fulfillment services third-party companies part its services offering and results increased consistency with others the industry. The Company received letter preferability for this change inventory costing from its independent auditors. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Effective July , , the Company adopted certain provisions Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , \x93Business Combinations,\x94 and effective January , , the Company adopted the full provisions SFAS . and SFAS . , \x93Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.\x94 SFAS . requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting, and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets apart from goodwill. The Company evaluated its goodwill and intangibles acquired prior June , using the criteria SFAS . , which resulted $ million other intangibles (comprised entirely assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill January , . SFAS . requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. The Company evaluated its intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS . prescribes two-phase process for impairment testing goodwill. The first phase screens for impairment; while the second phase ( necessary) measures the impairment. The Company completed its first phase impairment analysis during the first quarter and found instances impairment its recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary. subsequent indicators impairment have been noted the Company. accordance with Accounting Principles Board (\x93APB\x94) Opinion . , \x93Accounting Changes,\x94 the effect these accounting changes reflected prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure, the change had been retroactively applied, follows ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net loss: Reported net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Goodwill amortization( ) \x97 , , Inventory costing change( ) ( ) Adjusted net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) For the Years Ended December , Basic and diluted loss per share: Reported loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Goodwill amortization( ) \x97 Inventory costing change( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 Adjusted basic and diluted loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes $ million and $ million, $ and $ per share, for and , respectively, related amortization other intangibles that are classified goodwill effective January , . ( ) The inventory costing change reflects the cumulative adjustment through that date. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased under capital leases, are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software, including software used upgrade and enhance the Company\x92 Web sites. The Company expenses all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software (generally two years). Goodwill and Other Intangibles Other intangibles consist the following ( thousands): December , December , Gross Other Gross Other Carrying Accumulated Intangibles, Carrying Accumulated Intangibles, Amount Amortization Net Amount Amortization Net Contract-based $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Marketing-related , ( , ) , ( , ) , Technology-based , ( , ) , ( , ) Customer-related , ( , ) , ( ) , Assembled workforce( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( , ) , Other intangibles $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) January , , accordance with SFAS . , the Company reclassified its assembled workforce intangibles into goodwill. December , and , goodwill was $ million and $ million, respectively, stated net accumulated amortization $ million ( which $ million accumulated amortization was reclassified with the adoption SFAS . January , ) and $ million, respectively. During , goodwill other intangibles were acquired, impaired, disposed, and consistent with SFAS . , goodwill amortization was recorded. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized the end . Amortization expense for the net carrying amount intangible assets December , estimated $ million , and less than $ million . Investments Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the Company the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. Significant influence generally deemed exist the Company has ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %, although other factors, such representation the investee\x92 Board Directors and the effect commercial arrangements, are considered determining whether the equity method accounting appropriate. The Company records its equity the income losses these investees generally one month arrears for private companies and three months arrears for public companies. The Company records its investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other equity investments\x94 and its share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Equity losses equity-method investees, net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. All other equity investments, which consist investments for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, the Company classifies its equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets the Company does not have the intent hold the investment for over one year from the balance sheet date. cases where the Company has the intent hold such investments for over one year from the balance sheet date, such investments are included \x93Other equity investments.\x94 The Company also invests certain marketable debt securities, which consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities that are classified available-for-sale securities. Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. The initial cost the Company\x92 investments determined based the fair value the investment the time its acquisition. The Company has received equity securities consideration for services performed for the issuer under commercial agreements. such cases, the Company has estimated the fair value the equity securities received. For securities public companies, the Company generally determines fair value based the quoted market price the time the Company enters into the underlying agreement, and adjusts such market price appropriately significant restrictions marketability exist. observable market price does not exist for equity securities private companies, estimates fair value such securities are more subjective than for securities public companies. For significant transactions involving equity securities private companies, the Company obtains and considers independent, third party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use variety methodologies estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities publicly traded companies similar lines business, applying price multiples estimated future operating results for the private company, and estimating discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the fair value account for restrictions control and marketability where appropriate. Using these valuations and other PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) information available the Company, such the Company\x92 knowledge the industry and knowledge specific information about the investee, the Company determines the estimated fair value the securities received. the extent that equity securities are subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon signing the agreements, the fair value the securities determined the date the respective forfeiture vesting provisions lapse. The Company periodically evaluates whether the declines fair value its investments are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists review qualitative and quantitative factors members senior management. For investments with publicly quoted market prices, the Company generally considers decline other-than-temporary impairment the quoted market price less than its accounting basis for two consecutive quarters, absent evidence the contrary. The Company considers additional factors determine whether declines fair value are other-than-temporary, such the investee\x92 financial condition, results operations, operating trends and other financial ratios. The evaluation also considers publicly available information regarding the investee companies, including reports from investment analysts and other publicly available investee-specific news general market conditions. For investments private companies with quoted market price, the Company considers similar qualitative and quantitative factors and also considers the implied value from any recent rounds financing completed the investee, well market prices comparable public companies. The Company generally requires its private investees deliver monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements assist reviewing relevant financial data and assist determining whether such data may indicate other-than-temporary declines fair value below the Company\x92 accounting basis. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. The Company does not perform periodic assessment assets for impairment the absence such information indicators. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets held and used, the Company recognizes impairment loss only its carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted cash flows and measures the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and fair value. Long-lived assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Other Assets Other assets consist primarily fees incurred connection with the issuance the Company\x92 debt. These fees are amortized ratably component interest expense over the life the underlying debt. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments, whether received cash equity securities, are received advance the Company\x92 performance the underlying agreement. Unearned revenue amortized ratably over the period which services are provided. instances where the Company receives equity securities compensation for services provided under commercial arrangements, the fair value these securities, less the net amount cash paid for them, then recorded unearned revenue. Pursuant Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , \x93Accounting Grantee for Equity Instrument Received Conjunction with Providing Goods Services,\x94 the Company does not adjust unearned revenue give effect either increases decreases PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) value the equity securities subsequent their initial measurement ( the extent that such securities are not subject vesting forfeiture). Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. The Company provides valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets the extent such assets are not expected realized. Revenue Recognition The Company generally recognizes revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. The Company evaluates the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , \x93Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent,\x94 determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when the Company the primary obligor transaction, subject inventory risk, has latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, has several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. the Company not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, the Company generally records the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon the Company\x92 delivery the carrier (commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point\x94). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue management\x92 best estimate expected product returns) are estimated using historical experience. The Company periodically provides incentive offers its customers encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage discounts off current purchases (\x93current discount offers\x94), offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase (\x93inducement offers\x94) and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction and are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Inducement offers, when accepted customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using the Company\x92 historical experience for similar inducement offers. Commissions received sales products through Amazon Marketplace, well commissions earned through the Company\x92 Merchants@ program (see \x93Note \x97 Segment Information\x94), are recorded net amount since the Company acting agent such transactions. addition, the Company recognizes amounts earned through its Merchant program (see \x93Note \x97 Segment Information\x94) net amount. Amounts earned are recognized net sales when the item sold the third-party seller and collectibility reasonably assured. The Company records allowance for refunds such commissions using historical experience. The Company earns revenues from services primarily entering into commercial agreements, including providing its technology services such search, browse, and personalization; permitting third parties offer products services through its Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with our without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial agreements also include PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. compensation for the services the Company provides under these agreements, the Company receives cash, equity securities, combination thereof. Generally, the fair value the equity consideration received measured when the agreement executed, but the extent that the equity consideration subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon execution the agreement, the fair value the equity consideration and corresponding revenue determined the date that the forfeiture provision lapses the vesting provision lapses. Subsequent initial measurement fair value, appreciation decline the fair value such securities will affect the Company\x92 ultimate realization equity securities received compensation; however, any such change does not affect the amount revenue recognized over the term the agreement. The Company generally recognizes revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenue associated with non-refundable advance payments) straight-line basis over the period during which the Company performs services under these agreements, commencing the launch date the service. the Company receives non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until service commences. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company has the past, and may the future, amend its agreements with certain the companies with which has commercial agreements modify future cash proceeds received the Company, modify the service term its commercial agreements, both. Although these amendments generally not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded the Company ( any), the timing future revenue recognition changes correspond with the terms amended agreements. These amendments future amendments will affect the timing and amount revenues recognized connection with these commercial agreements. the extent the Company believes any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, the Company limits its revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Outbound shipping charges customers are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold the Company, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies and certain costs associated with service revenues. Costs associated with service revenues classified cost services generally include direct and allocated indirect fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf third-party sellers, costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing the Company\x92 fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable : receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\x92 orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-party -sourcers that assist the Company fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain Services PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) segment fulfillment-related costs incurred behalf other businesses are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising, promotional, and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. The Company expenses general media advertising costs incurred. The Company enters into certain online promotional agreements with third parties increase traffic its Web sites. Costs associated with these promotional agreements consist fixed payments, variable activity-based payments, combination the two. Fixed payments are amortized ratably over the corresponding agreement term and variable payments are expensed the period incurred. The Company receives reimbursements from vendors for certain general media and other advertising costs. Such reimbursements are recorded reduction expense. Advertising expense and other promotional costs were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Prepaid advertising costs were $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations personnel; and systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software, including upgrades and enhancements the Company\x92 Web sites, that are capitalized and depreciated over two years. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, net accumulated depreciation, was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Costs capitalized during the application development stage for internal-use software, offset corresponding amortization, was net expense $ million , and net deferrals $ million and $ million and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment certain stock options, restricted stock issued certain key employees and amounts associated with the Company\x92 restricted stock unit program, which commenced the fourth quarter . Stock-based compensation also includes, lesser extent, portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure certain key employees acquired businesses. The Company generally has four categories employee stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, fixed-award stock options and options subject variable accounting treatment. December , , the Company has three stock-based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described \x93Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit).\x94 The Company accounts for those plans under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting results stock compensation expense the extent option exercise prices are set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent employee stock awards have been subject exchange offer other modifications, such awards are subject variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based quoted prices the Company\x92 common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Restricted stock and restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price the Company\x92 common stock. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding employee service period. the extent restricted stock restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation associated with restricted stock units was $ million during . During the first quarter , the Company offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options. The exchange resulted the voluntary cancellation employee stock options purchase million shares common stock with varying exercise prices exchange for employee stock options purchase million shares common stock with exercise price $ . The option exchange offer resulted variable accounting treatment for, the time the exchange, approximately million stock options, which includes options granted under the exchange offer and million options, with weighted average exercise price $ , that were subject the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable accounting will continue until all options subject variable accounting treatment are exercised, cancelled expired. December , , approximately million options remain under variable accounting treatment, which includes million options granted under the exchange offer and million options, with weighted average exercise price $ , that were subject the exchange offer but were not exchanged. The following table summarizes relevant information reported results under the Company\x92 intrinsic value method accounting for stock awards, with supplemental information the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Stock Based Compensation,\x94 had been applied ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net loss, reported $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Add: Stock-based compensation, reported , , , Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined under fair value based method for all awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Adjusted net loss, fair value method for all stock-based awards $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Basic and diluted loss per share \x97 reported $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share \x97 SFAS . adjusted $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted average assumptions: For the Years Ended December , Average risk-free interest rates % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % The weighted average fair value stock awards (including restricted stock units granted ) granted during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Foreign Currency The Company has the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . Net sales generated from these Web sites, well most the related expenses incurred, are denominated the functional currencies the Web sites. Additionally, the functional currency the Company\x92 subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada, respectively. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 deficit. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97 Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 Derivative Financial Instruments Effective January , , the Company adopted SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,\x94 which requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current results operations other comprehensive income (loss) depending whether derivative designated part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. For derivative designated fair value hedge, the gain loss the derivative the period change and the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the hedged risk are recognized results operations. For derivative designated cash flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified into results operations when the hedged exposure affects results operations. The ineffective portion the gain loss cash flow hedge recognized currently results operations. For derivative not designated hedging instrument, the gain loss recognized currently results operations. The Company exposed the risk fluctuations foreign exchange rates between the . Dollar and the Euro associated with its % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) (See \x93Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other\x94). minimize portion the risk from this exposure, the Company has designated swap agreement cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest based upon the criteria established SFAS . . The terms the hedge instrument have been structured match the related terms the hedged portion the % PEACS. net gains losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness were recognized results operations during the years ended December , and , respectively. The Company holds warrants purchase equity securities other companies. Warrants that can exercised and settled delivery net shares such that the Company pays cash upon exercise are deemed derivative financial instruments. Net share warrants are not designated hedging instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 the period change. The Company determines the fair value its warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for its private-company warrants. The adoption SFAS . January , resulted cumulative transition losses $ million included the results operations and stockholders\x92 deficit adjustment $ million. Transition losses included \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 warrants previously reported fair value and classified available-for-sale, and approximately $ million PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) losses warrants previously reported cost. warrant investments are designated hedging instruments. Transition losses \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses the swap agreement designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS offset the approximately $ million losses reclassified results operations derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Effective January , , currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Prior January , , % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros was designated hedge equivalent amount Euro-denominated investments classified available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses the % PEACS were recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 the consolidated balance sheets hedging offsets currency gains and losses the Euro-denominated investments. this hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions SFAS . , commencing January , , the foreign currency change resulting from the portion the % PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities now being recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding during the period, net shares subject restrictions, and excludes any dilutive effects options warrants, restricted stock units and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding (including the effect restricted stock units) during the period; common stock equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. Recent Accounting Pronouncements August , the FASB issued SFAS . , \x93Accounting for the Impairment Disposal Long-Lived Assets,\x94 that applicable financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December , . The FASB\x92 new rules asset impairment supersede SFAS . , \x93Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed ,\x94 and portions Accounting Principles Bulletin Opinion , \x93Reporting the Results Operations.\x94 This Standard provides single accounting model for long-lived assets disposed and significantly changes the criteria that would have met classify asset held-for-sale. Classification held-for-sale important distinction since such assets are not depreciated and are stated the lower fair value and carrying amount. This Standard also requires expected future operating losses from discontinued operations displayed the period( ) which the losses are incurred, rather than the measurement date presently required. The provisions this Standard are not expected have significant effect the Company\x92 financial position operating results. November , the EITF reached consensus Issue - , addressing the accounting cash consideration received customer from vendor, including vendor rebates and refunds. The consensus reached states that consideration received should presumed reduction the prices the vendor\x92 products services and should therefore shown reduction cost sales the income statement the customer. The presumption could overcome the vendor receives identifiable benefit exchange for the consideration the consideration represents reimbursement specific incremental identifiable cost incurred the customer selling the vendor\x92 product service. one these conditions met, the cash consideration should characterized reduction those costs the income statement the customer. The consensus reached also concludes that rebates refunds can reasonably estimated, such rebates refunds should recognized reduction the cost sales PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) based systematic and rational allocation the consideration received relative the transactions that mark the progress the customer toward earning the rebate refund. The provisions this consensus are applied prospectively and are consistent with the Company\x92 existing accounting policy. November , the EITF reached consensus Issue - , addressing how account for arrangements that involve the delivery performance multiple products, services, and rights use assets. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: ( ) the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; ( ) there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and ( ) delivery any undelivered item probable. Arrangement consideration should allocated among the separate units accounting based their relative fair values, with the amount allocated the delivered item being limited the amount that not contingent the delivery additional items meeting other specified performance conditions. The final consensus will applicable agreements entered into fiscal periods beginning after June , with early adoption permitted. The provisions this Consensus are not expected have significant effect the Company\x92 financial position operating results. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x97 Transition and Disclosure.\x94 This Statement amends SFAS . , \x93Stock-Based Compensation,\x94 provide alternative methods transition for voluntary change the fair value based method accounting for stock-based employee compensation. addition, this Statement amends the disclosure requirements SFAS . require prominent disclosures both annual and interim financial statements about the method accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect the method used reported results. The disclosure provisions this Standard are effective for fiscal years ending after December , and have been incorporated into these financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize, major security type, the Company\x92 cash and marketable securities ( thousands): December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , , \x97 , Cash and cash equivalents , , \x97 , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Asset-backed and agency securities , , \x97 , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value . Treasury notes and bonds , , ( ) , Equity securities , \x97 \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 ( , ) , Total cash and cash equivalents , \x97 ( , ) , Certificates deposit , \x97 ( ) , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities , \x97 , . Treasury notes and bonds , \x97 , Equity securities , ( ) , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , The following table summarizes contractual maturities the Company\x92 cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( thousands): Amortized Estimated Cost Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through three years , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities , , $ , $ , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities for the years ended December , , , and respectively. The Company has pledged portion its marketable securities collateral for stand- letters credit that guarantee certain its contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges foreign exchange rate risk portion its % PEACS; and some its real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 and \x93Note \x97 Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Fixed Assets Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( thousands): December , Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements $ , $ , Technology infrastructure and other computer equipment , , Software purchased developed for internal use , , Equipment and other fixed assets acquired under capital leases , , , , Less accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Less accumulated amortization leased assets ( , ) ( , ) Fixed assets, net $ , $ , Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Note \x97 Other Equity Investments Activity the Company\x92 equity-method and cost-method investments for the years ended December , and , follows ( thousands): Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Balance, December , $ , $ , $ , Investments \x97 common stock consideration , \x97 , Fair value equity securities received services-related transactions \x97 Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( ) ( ) ( ) Realized gains sales investments, net \x97 Non-cash gains (losses) for acquisitions investees third party , ( ) Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Unrealized gains available-for-sale investments, net \x97 Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Loss from change accounting principle \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( , ) , \x97 Balance, December , , , , Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Realized gains sales investments, net , , , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Unrealized losses available-for-sale investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( ) \x97 Balance, December , $ $ , $ , Effective January , , the Company\x92 adoption SFAS . resulted the recording loss totaling $ million report certain warrants fair value. Prior adoption, such warrants were carried cost. December , and , cost-method investments recorded \x93Other equity investments\x94 included $ million and $ million, respectively, investments recorded fair value and $ million and $ million, respectively, investments carried cost. Gross unrealized gains and losses were not significant December , and . December , and , the fair value the Company\x92 investments the common stock publicly held equity-method investees was $ million and $ million, respectively. Note \x97 Unearned Revenue Activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , $ , Cash received accounts receivable , Fair value equity securities received Amortization revenue ( , ) Contract termination ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , All amounts recorded accounts receivable, including amounts associated with unearned revenue, are legally due and contractually enforceable. December , accounts receivable, net associated with unearned revenue was $ million. During , the Company recognized previously unearned revenue associated with the termination its commercial agreement with Kozmo com, which was included \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the accompanying consolidated statements operations. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, amounts associated with the Kozmo com commercial agreement were previously recognized \x93Net sales\x94 the accompanying consolidated statements operations during any period. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other The Company\x92 long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( thousands): December , % Convertible Subordinated Notes $ , , $ , , % PEACS , , Senior Discount Notes , , Long-term restructuring liabilities , , Euro currency swap , , Capital lease obligations , , Other long-term debt , , , , , , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) Less current portion other long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) $ , , $ , , % PEACS February , , the Company completed offering million Euros % PEACS due . The % PEACS are convertible into the Company\x92 common stock conversion price Euros per share. The initial conversion price Euros per share was adjusted down due reset provisions the note. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated all the Company\x92 existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with the Company\x92 outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. Subject certain conditions, the % PEACS may redeemed the Company\x92 option after February , , whole part, the redemption price , Euros per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which the stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants the Company, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining its corporate existence and properties and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. The Company was compliance with these covenants December , . order hedge portion the risk foreign exchange fluctuations between the . Dollar and the Euro, the Company entered into cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, the Company agreed pay inception and receive upon maturity million Euros exchange for receiving inception and paying maturity $ million. addition, the Company agreed receive February each year million Euros for interest payments million Euros the % PEACS and, simultaneously, pay $ million. The agreement expires February , and cancelable, whole part, the Company\x92 option cost after February , the Company\x92 underlying PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) stock price (converted into Euros) greater than equal the minimum conversion price the % PEACS. The Company has designated the swap agreement cash flow hedge the foreign exchange rate risk portion the % PEACS principal and interest accordance with the provisions SFAS . . Each period, gains losses resulting from changes the fair value the swap contract are recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 and portion such gain loss immediately reclassified the statement operations, \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 offset the foreign currency loss gain attributable remeasurement the hedged portion the % PEACS. For the year ended December , , currency swap gain $ million was reclassified offset $ million currency loss the % PEACS. The terms the swap contract have been structured match the terms the hedged portion the % PEACS. net gains losses, resulting from hedge ineffectiveness, were recognized results operations during the year ended December , and . Effective January , , currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Prior January , , % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros was designated hedge equivalent amount Euro-denominated investments classified available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses the % PEACS were recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 the consolidated balance sheets hedging offsets currency gains and losses the Euro-denominated investments. the hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions SFAS . , commencing January , , the foreign currency change resulting from the portion the % PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities now being recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. The change resulted gain $ million for the year ended December , , consisting $ million gain reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 and $ million gain attributable remeasurement the % PEACS during the period. The fair value the swap determined the present value net future cash payments and receipts, adjusted for the Company\x92 ability cancel the agreement and the likelihood such cancellation. The fair value takes into consideration current foreign exchange rates, market interest rates, the current market price the Company\x92 common stock and other variables. The fair value the swap obligation was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million, December , and December , , respectively. % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into the Company\x92 common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year, and commenced August , . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. any time after February , , least days\x92 notice the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, premium % over its principal balance, together with accrued interest. The redemption premium thereafter reduced % each February between and . Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which the stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants the Company, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining its corporate existence and properties, paying taxes and other claims timely manner and the provision information required under Rule 144A the Securities Act enable holders sell without registration. The Company was compliance with these covenants December , . Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and December , was $ million and $ million, respectively. Senior Discount Notes , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million % Senior Discount Notes due May , (\x93Original Senior Discount Notes\x94). Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93Exchange Notes\x94 \x93Senior Discount Notes\x94), which are registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Original Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the Original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Original Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the Original Senior Discount Notes (\x93Indenture\x94). The Original Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their original principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. During , the Company repurchased $ million (principal amount) the Senior Discount Notes, representing accreted value $ million, resulting remaining outstanding principal amount $ million. The Company recorded immaterial loss extinguishment this debt. repurchases Senior Discount Notes occurred , . The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking equally with the Company\x92 existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\x92 subsidiaries. The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its \x93Restricted Subsidiaries\x94 ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all covenants December , . Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Commitments and Contingencies Commitments The Company currently leases office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. The following are the Company\x92 contractual commitments associated with its operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing agreements ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Other commitments: Debt principal and other( ) , , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases , , , , , , , Marketing agreements , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) Principal and interest payments due under the Company\x92 % PEACS, excluding those payments with fixed exchange ratio under the currency swap hedge arrangement, will fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Long-term capital lease obligations $ Pledged Securities The Company has pledged portion its marketable securities collateral for stand- letters credit that guarantee certain its contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign exchange risk portion its % PEACS; and some its real estate lease agreements. The amount marketable securities the Company required pledge pursuant the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value the swap obligation. The change the total amount collateral pledged under these agreements follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Swap Real Estate Credit Agreement Leases Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Legal Proceedings April , , the Company received request from the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) staff for the voluntary production documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales the Company\x92 common stock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, February and , . The Company cooperating with the SEC staff\x92 continuing inquiry. number purported class action complaints were filed holders the Company\x92 equity and debt securities against the Company, its directors and certain its senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). October , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed consolidated amended complaint alleging that the Company, together with certain its officers and directors and certain third-parties, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through July , concerning the Company\x92 business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. The Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intends vigorously defend itself these matters. August , , the Trustee for the Creditors\x92 Trust for Living com instituted adversary proceeding against subsidiary the Company the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District Texas. The plaintiff alleges that Living com\x92 creditors are entitled contractual recovery PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) approximately $ million fees that Living com had previously paid primarily issuing Living com stock the Company. The Company disputes the plaintiff\x92 allegations and intends vigorously defend itself this matter. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against the Company and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest and declaratory relief. The Company disputes the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intends vigorously defend itself this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect the Company\x92 business, future results operations, financial position cash flows particular period. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, financial condition, operating results. Inventory Suppliers During , the Company purchased over % all inventory purchases from single vendor, Ingram Book Group. other vendors account for over %. The Company does not have long-term contracts arrangements with most its vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Preferred Stock The Company has authorized , , shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock shares were outstanding during , . Basis Adjustments \x97 Public Offerings Investees Three the Company\x92 equity-method investees, HomeGrocer com, Inc., Pets com, Inc. and drugstore com, inc., completed public offerings their common stock during . result those public offerings, the Company\x92 ownership percentage each investee was diluted, creating \x93implied sale\x94 portion its investments. accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin . , \x93Accounting for Sales Stock Subsidiary,\x94 the Company recorded unrealized gains, net unrealized losses, additional paid- capital totaling $ million . The unrealized gains, net, represent the difference between the Company\x92 carrying basis and the fair value the portion each PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) investment deemed have been sold the investees. Details these offerings and the effect the Company\x92 ownership and cost basis the investees are follows: Ownership Shares Price Offering Basis Issued per Amount Prior After Adjustment Offering ( thousands) Share ( thousands) Offering Offering ( thousands) Homegrocer com, Inc. March initial public offering , $ $ , % % $ , Pets com, Inc. February initial public offering , , % % , drugstore com, inc. March secondary public offering , , % % , drugstore com, inc. July private public offering , , % % ( ) Total $ , Stock Award Plans The Company\x92 stock award plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan and the Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under these plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Incentive Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan, which maximum , , shares that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Incentive Plan. connection with certain acquisitions , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under the acquired companies\x92 stock option plans. The Company\x92 stock award plans well the assumed stock award plans are hereby collectively referred the \x93Plans.\x94 , the Company transitioned using restricted stock units, awarded under the Stock Incentive Plan, its primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Employees vest restricted stock unit awards ratably over the corresponding service term, generally three six years. relates stock option awards, the Company\x92 Board Directors generally sets exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Company\x92 plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally became exercisable immediately but are subject restriction transfer that vests over period time. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Certain outstanding options that were granted during and vest and become exercisable the rate % after year one and % after year two. During the first quarter , the Company offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options employees meeting certain eligibility criteria. Options granted pursuant this stock option exchange vest and become exercisable the rate % after months from the date grant and % per month for the succeeding months. Certain options granted the third quarter generally vest and become exercisable follows: ( ) the option vests quarterly equal installments over , month period commencing dates ranging from grant date October , , ( ) the option vests % % date approximately months from date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period (iii) the option vests % % dates approximately months and months PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) from the date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company the exercise price upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock, which includes restricted shares issued connection with acquisitions well shares issued certain key employees and , were subject repurchase forfeiture. Stock Award Activity December , , outstanding stock awards totaled million, which includes million stock options and million restricted stock units. The following table summarizes the Company\x92 stock option activity: Number Shares Weighted Average ( thousands) Exercise Price Balance December , , $ Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Weighted Weighted Number Average Number Average Range Awards Remaining Exercise Awards Exercise Exercise Prices ( thousands) Life (yrs) Price ( thousands) Price $ - $ , $ , $ - , , - , , - , - , , - , - , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Weighted Weighted Number Average Number Average Range Awards Remaining Exercise Awards Exercise Exercise Prices ( thousands) Life (yrs) Price ( thousands) Price - , , - , , - , , Deferred Stock-Based Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred stock-based compensation $ million and $ million and respectively. similar amounts were recorded . Deferred stock-based compensation was recorded connection with the Company\x92 restricted common stock issued key employees for future services. The amounts recorded represent the fair value the Company\x92 common stock issued the date grant. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding service period, which generally five years. Additionally, , and , the Company recorded adjustments reduce previously recorded deferred stock-based compensation $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively, representing the remaining unvested portion restricted stock awards upon termination certain key employees prior vesting. Comprehensive Income (Loss) The changes the components comprehensive loss were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign-currency translations gains (losses), net , ( , ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during year , ( , ) ( , ) Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net loss ( , ) , , Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities , , ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) Euro-based currency swap: Unrealized gains (losses) remeasurement fair value , ( , ) \x97 Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net loss ( , ) , \x97 Net unrealized gains (losses) Euro-based currency swap , ( , ) \x97 Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 ( , ) \x97 Cumulative effect accounting change adopt SFAS . . \x97 ( , ) \x97 Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( , ) ( ) Comprehensive loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) The Company not able predict future gains losses due the remeasurement the hedged portion the % PEACS and equivalent reclassifications losses gains the swap contract from accumulated other comprehensive loss earnings. Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock awards, including restricted stock units , Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes , Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS , Total , Note \x97 Earnings (Loss) Per Share The following represents the calculations for net loss per share ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Loss before change accounting principle $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) \x97 Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Weighted average common shares issued subject restrictions ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share , , , Basic and diluted loss per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) All the Company\x92 stock awards (see \x93Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit)\x94) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. Note \x97 Restructuring-Related and Other Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. the first quarter , the Company announced and began implementation its operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline its organizational structure, consolidate certain its fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion its technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation its Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure its McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation its Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure its customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) large portion its technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however, the Company may adjust its restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. During , the Company revised its estimates ongoing net lease obligations for its facilities Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due weakness these real estate markets; reached termination agreement with the landlord its leased fulfillment center facility McDonough, Georgia; and permanently closed its fulfillment center Seattle, Washington. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance Balance December , Subsequent December , Due Within Due After Accruals, Net Payments Months( ) Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) , , , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 respectively, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Restructuring-related and other expenses primarily relate impairments goodwill and other intangibles recorded connection with certain the Company\x92 business acquisitions. Note \x97 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Note \x97 Other Gains (Losses), Net Other gains (losses), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gains (losses) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ , $ \x97 Gains (losses) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , ( , ) \x97 Other-than-temporary impairment losses equity investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Gains sales equity investments, net , \x97 \x97 Gains from terminations commercial contracts \x97 , , Net gains from acquisition investments third parties \x97 , Warrant remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) \x97 $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Note \x97 Income Taxes The Company has provided for current and deferred . federal, state and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where subsidiaries the Company produce taxable income. December , , the Company has recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. The Company has provided valuation allowance for the PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) remainder its deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\x92 net deferred tax assets, which are included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets,\x94 are follows ( thousands): December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses $ , $ , Assets held for investment , , Revenue items , , Expense items , , Total gross deferred tax assets , , , , Less valuation allowance ( , , ) ( , , ) Net deferred tax assets , , Deferred tax liabilities \x97 Expense items ( ) \x97 Net deferred tax asset $ , $ , December , , the Company had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begins expire . Approximately $ billion the Company\x92 net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Note \x97 Employee Benefit Plan The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\x92 contributions the discretion the Company\x92 Board Directors. Through December , , the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan; however has announced its intentions make employer matching contributions using its common stock. Note \x97 Segment Information The Company presents information its chief operating decision maker four segments: North America Books, Music, and DVD/ Video (\x93BMVD\x94); North America Electronics, Tools, and Kitchen (\x93ETK\x94); International; and Services. Accordingly, the Company discloses its segment financial information along these lines. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) BMVD Segment The BMVD segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD/ video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace, amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through the Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through the Syndicated Stores program. ETK Segment The ETK segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through the Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through the Syndicated Stores program. International Segment The International segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering products through the Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through the Merchants@ program. The International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Operating results for the International segment are affected movements foreign exchange rates. During , International segment revenues improved $ million, and operating results improved $ million comparison the prior year due changes foreign exchange rates. Services Segment The Services segment consists commissions, fees and other amounts earned from the services business, including the Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered the Company through its online retail stores, the Merchants@ program, such the apparel store, Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com, well the commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company measures the results operations its reportable segments using pro forma measure. Pro forma results from operations, which exclude stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges, are not conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other costs are not allocated segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated segment results. There are internal transactions between the Company\x92 reporting segments. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net loss follows ( thousands): Year Ended : North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) , ( ) , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle Net loss $ ( , ) Year Ended : North America Books. Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) , ( , ) , ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) Net loss $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Year Ended : North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Net loss $ ( , , ) Net sales customers outside the . represented approximately %, % and % net sales for , and , respectively. Other than sales into the United Kingdom, which represents approximately % total net sales , individual foreign country, geographical area customer accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( thousands): North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and Year Ended December , DVD Video Kitchen Total Services International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , , , , , , , December , and , fixed assets, net totaled $ million and $ million the United States, respectively, and $ million and $ million other countries, respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Quarterly Results (Unaudited) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation income (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Basic and diluted income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic income (loss) per share , , , , Shares used computation diluted income (loss) per share , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share , , , , ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. PAGEBREAK link2 "Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure" Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. link1 "PART III" PART III link2 "Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant" Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business \x97 Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act set forth the Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Executive Compensation" Item . Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Controls and Procedures" Item . Controls and Procedures Within days prior the date this report, carried out evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures. Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. should noted that the design any system controls based part upon certain assumptions, and there can assurance that any design will succeed achieving its stated goals. addition, reviewed our internal controls, and there have been significant changes our internal controls other factors that could significantly affect those controls subsequent the date their last evaluation. PAGEBREAK link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - " Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description . Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). . Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). PAGEBREAK Exhibit Number Description . \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). . \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Jeff Wilke, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , . . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Mark Peek, dated February , . . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Mark Peek, dated April , . . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. . Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . List Significant Subsidiaries. . Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) Reports Form - : November , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing that Thomas . Ryder, Chairman and CEO the Reader\x92 Digest Association, was elected the Amazon com Board Directors. PAGEBREAK link1 "SIGNATURES" SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, February , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated February , . Signature Title / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Jeffrey . Bezos Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) / / THOMAS . SZKUTAK Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) / / MARK . PEEK Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) / / TOM . ALBERG Tom . Alberg Director / / . JOHN DOERR . John Doerr Director / / MARK . HANSEN Mark . Hansen Director / / THOMAS . RYDER Thomas . Ryder Director / / PATRICIA . STONESIFER Patricia . Stonesifer Director PAGEBREAK CERTIFICATION , Jeffrey . Bezos, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Amazon com, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\x92 disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the \x93Evaluation Date\x94); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\x92 auditors and the audit committee registrant\x92 board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\x92 ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\x92 auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\x92 internal controls; and . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. / / JEFFREY . BEZOS Jeffrey . Bezos Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) Date: February , PAGEBREAK CERTIFICATION , Thomas . Szkutak, certify that: . have reviewed this annual report Form - Amazon com, Inc.; . Based knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement material fact omit state material fact necessary make the statements made, light the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect the period covered this annual report; . Based knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included this annual report, fairly present all material respects the financial condition, results operations and cash flows the registrant , and for, the periods presented this annual report; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures ( defined Exchange Act Rules 13a- and 15d- ) for the registrant and have: ) designed such disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information relating the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, made known others within those entities, particularly during the period which this annual report being prepared; ) evaluated the effectiveness the registrant\x92 disclosure controls and procedures date within days prior the filing date this annual report (the \x93Evaluation Date\x94); and ) presented this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness the disclosure controls and procedures based our evaluation the Evaluation Date; . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have disclosed, based our most recent evaluation, the registrant\x92 auditors and the audit committee registrant\x92 board directors ( persons performing the equivalent functions): ) all significant deficiencies the design operation internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant\x92 ability record, process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the registrant\x92 auditors any material weaknesses internal controls; and ) any fraud, whether not material, that involves management other employees who have significant role the registrant\x92 internal controls; and . The registrant\x92 other certifying officers and have indicated this annual report whether there were significant changes internal controls other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent the date our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. / / THOMAS . SZKUTAK Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) Date: February , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE \x97 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Inventory Valuation Allowance Charged/ Balance (Credited) Inventory Balance Beginning Costs and Disposed End Year Ended Period Expenses Written Off Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Accounts Receivable Allowance \x97 Customers Charged/ Balance (Credited) Balance Beginning Costs and Amounts End Year Ended Period Expenses Written Off Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Accounts Receivable Allowance \x97 Vendors Charged/ Balance (Credited) Balance Beginning Costs and Amounts End Year Ended Period Expenses Written Off Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , PAGEBREAK EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description . Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). . Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). . \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Jeff Wilke, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , . . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Mark Peek, dated February , . . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Mark Peek, dated April , . . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. . Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). PAGEBREAK Exhibit Number Description . List Significant Subsidiaries. . Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ', 'item 14. ': 'Controls and Procedures PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - Signatures PAGEBREAK link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Business" Item . Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97 \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Forward-Looking Statements.\x94 General Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. and our sellers list millions unique new, used and collectible items categories such apparel and accessories, electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs, zShops and Auctions, any business individual can sell virtually anything Amazon com\x92 millions customers. operate six global Web sites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . also own and operate the Internet Movie Database www imdb com (\x93IMDb\x94), which comprehensive and authoritative source information movie and entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb Pro, subscription service designed for the entertainment industry. Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Business Strategy seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want buy online. have designed our Web sites allow millions new, used and collectible products sold and other businesses and individuals worldwide. product our Web sites may listed for sale simultaneously several different sellers. For instance, product may offered , participant our Merchants@ program and business individual selling new, used collectible version the product through Amazon Marketplace, zShops Auctions. also offer certain -commerce services other businesses through our Merchant com and Syndicated Stores programs. Lowering Prices endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. strive improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs that can afford pass along these savings our customers the form lower prices. believe this strategy lowering prices will, over time, increase unit growth and lead further efficiencies. PAGEBREAK Amazon com Retail are the seller record our Web sites for broad range new products, including electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, software, computer and video games, cell phones, tools and hardware and outdoor living items. purchase these products from vendors and fulfill them either through our fulfillment centers through outsourced fulfillment providers. Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace Programs Our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs allow other businesses and individuals offer their new, used and collectible products for sale our Web sites. Their products are fully integrated our Web sites and are purchased customers through single checkout process. are not the seller record these transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. also sometimes offer fulfillment-related services under this program. Examples our Merchants@ program include our apparel store www amazon com , which offers more than brands, well the Toysrus com, Babiesrus com and Target stores www amazon com . Amazon Marketplace available www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . addition, other businesses and individuals can auction products through our Auction sites and offer products individual specialty stores through our zShops sites. Merchant com Program Through our Merchant com program utilize our -commerce services, features and technologies operate another business\x92 Web site and sell its products under its brand name and URL ( example www target com ). also offer fulfillment-related services through our Merchant com program. are not the seller record, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Syndicated Stores Program Through our Syndicated Stores program, utilize our -commerce services, features and technologies sell our products through another business\x92 Web site using another business\x92 name and URL. Under these arrangements, are the seller record and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service. The other business earns sales commission the products sold. Examples include www cdnow com, www virginmega com, www virginmega , www borders com, www waldenbooks com and www waterstones , among others. Operating Segments Beginning , organized our operations into four principal segments: North America Books, Music and DVD/ Video (\x93BMVD\x94); North America Electronics, Tools and Kitchen (\x93ETK\x94); International; and Services. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements \x97 Note \x97 Segment Information\x94 for additional information regarding our segments. BMVD Segment. This segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through our Syndicated Stores program. Our BMVD segment had net sales $ billion, $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. , launched our Canada-focused Web site www amazon and launched Syndicated Stores www cdnow com and www waldenbooks com . addition, added -store pickup PAGEBREAK our www borders com Syndicated Store and added over , magazine, newspaper and newsletter titles our Magazine store www amazon com . ETK Segment. This segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through our Syndicated Stores program. Our ETK segment had net sales $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. During , launched our Office Depot store www amazon com . International Segment. This segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and product revenues from stores offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Our International segment had net sales $ billion, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon each launched Amazon Marketplace. addition, the Syndicated Store www virginmega was launched, and www amazon launched magazine and periodicals store. Services Segment. This segment consists commissions, fees and other amounts earned from our services business, including our Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such our apparel store, the Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com , well our commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The Services segment had net sales $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. , launched our apparel store which now has more than popular brands clothing, shoes and accessories offered our Merchants@ program participants. addition, launched www target com under our Merchant com program. Amazon com Web Sites Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing feature-rich content, secure and trusted transaction environment and easy- -use functionality. Our Web sites offer broad selection, low prices, availability, convenience, discovery and fulfillment. Key features include product reviews and other information, Web pages tailored individual customers\x92 preferences, including recommendations and notifications, -Click® technology, secure payment systems, browsing, searching and the ability view selected interior pages over , books with our \x93Look Inside the Book\x94 feature. Our community online users creates feature-rich content, including product reviews and online lists, such wish lists, wedding registries and baby registries desired products and services that others can reference for gift-giving purposes and Listmania lists with accompanying commentary regarding favorite products. PAGEBREAK Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy designed strengthen and broaden the Amazon com brand name, increase customer traffic our Web sites, encourage customers shop many product categories, promote repeat purchases and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. First and foremost, our best marketing efforts are focused improving the customer experience, which drives word- -mouth promotion and repeat customer visits. also deliver personalized Web pages and services and employ variety media, business development activities and promotional methods achieve these goals. benefit from public relations activities and from time time employ various means online and traditional advertising, including -mail, radio, television and print media and direct marketing. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors. direct customers our Web sites through our Associates program, which enables associated Web sites make our products available their audiences with fulfillment performed . Currently, over , Web sites have enrolled our Associates program. addition, offer everyday free shipping option www amazon com for certain orders that exceed specific amount, and offer similar options for our internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses not include our free and reduced shipping offers, view such offers effective marketing tool. Customer Service believe that our ability establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, part, the strength our customer service operations, and continually seek improve the Amazon com customer service experience. Customers can use the \x93your-account\x94 website features track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery information and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options and return items. addition these and similar online self-service features, users can contact customer service representatives hours day, seven days week. have automated certain tools used our customer service staff and have plans for further enhancements. currently have customer service personnel working six customer service centers located Tacoma, Washington; Grand Forks, North Dakota; Huntington, West Virginia; Slough, the United Kingdom; Regensburg, Germany; and Sapporo, Japan. addition, have customer-service cosourcing arrangements with certain vendors India, Northern Ireland and the . Fulfillment currently lease and operate . fulfillment facilities New Castle, Delaware; Coffeyville, Kansas; Campbellsville and Lexington, Kentucky; Fernley, Nevada; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. also lease and operate three European fulfillment centers that are located Marston Gate, the United Kingdom; Orleans, France; and Bad Hersfeld, Germany. Japan, Nippon Express, leading courier company, provides fulfillment services for orders from www. mazon under cosourcing arrangement; and Canada, Assured Logistics, affiliate Canada Post, provides outsourced fulfillment services for orders from www amazon . aggregate basis, these fulfillment centers (including the facilities that are leased Nippon Express and Assured Logistics) comprise approximately million square feet warehouse space. addition, currently lease six off-site facilities totaling approximately million square feet space, which support the storage and fulfillment functions our . fulfillment centers. Our fulfillment centers facilitate our ability deliver merchandise customers reliable and timely basis. addition, fulfill certain orders through outsourced fulfillment providers. Seasonality Our business generally affected both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage (which generally declines during summer months) and traditional retail seasonality. Traditional retail sales for most our products (including books, music, DVDs, videos, toys and electronics, among others) usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. particular note the fourth quarter seasonal PAGEBREAK effect our sales toys (which are mainly sold through our Merchants@ program relationship with Toysrus com) and electronics. Technology have implemented numerous Web-site management, search, customer interaction, recommendation, transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems using combination our own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current strategy focus our development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business and license acquire commercially-developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders and ensuring proper shipment products customers. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability and track the progress each order. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing and charging customer credit cards. Competition The retail environment for our products generally intensely competitive. Our current potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, catalog retailers, publishers, distributors and manufacturers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order direct marketing; ( ) other online -commerce sites; ( ) number indirect competitors, including Web portals and Web search engines that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers; and ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including Web-site developers and third-party fulfillment and customer-service providers. believe that the principal competitive factors our market segments include selection, price, availability, convenience, information, discovery, brand recognition, personalized services, accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use and ability adapt changing conditions. For services offer business and individual sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality our services and tools and speed performance for our services. the market segments which operate continue grow, other companies may also enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered number domain names and been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents and copyrights . and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights the . and internationally, and have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technologies copyrighted materials, third parties. Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. also employ independent contractors and temporary personnel seasonal basis. None our employees PAGEBREAK represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry intense, particularly for software-development and other technical staff. believe that our future success will depend part our continued ability attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com . make available this website under \x93Financial Documents and Annual Reports,\x94 free charge, our annual reports Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - and amendments those reports soon reasonably practicable after electronically file furnish such materials the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could materially adversely affected. Have Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses have incurred significant losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ billion and our stockholders\x92 equity was deficit $ billion. have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception, and may continue incur such losses for the foreseeable future. Have Significant Indebtedness December , , had total long-term indebtedness under our % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93Senior Discount Notes\x94), convertible notes, capitalized-lease obligations and other asset financings $ billion. make annual semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our two tranches convertible notes, which are due and , respectively. Beginning November , will begin make semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes. may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements other purposes the future; plan for, react , changes technology and our business and competition; and react the event economic downturn. There guarantee that will able meet our debt service obligations. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with covenants our indebtedness, will default. Face Intense Competition The market segments which compete are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including both the retail and -commerce services industries. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors both the retail and -commerce services industries also may able devote more resources technology development and marketing than . Competition the -commerce channel may intensify. Other companies the retail and -commerce service industries may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive PAGEBREAK positions. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may expand into the market segments which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature online retail. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, both. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances and other business relationships with other companies. have entered into agreements provide -commerce services other businesses and plan enter into similar agreements the future. Under such agreements, may perform services such : providing our technology services such search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and initially require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may constrain the number such agreements are able enter into and may affect our ability deliver services under the relevant agreements. fail implement, maintain and develop successfully the various components such arrangements, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing and licensing third party software, hardware and content, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. Therefore, the other business\x92 Web site product services offering not successful, may not receive all the compensation are otherwise due under the agreement may not able maintain the agreement. Moreover, may not able succeed our plans enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. our commercial agreements expire otherwise terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. Some our agreements involve high margin services, such marketing and promotional agreements, and such agreements expire they may replaced, all, agreements involving lower margin services. addition, several past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable meet their obligations . may the future enter into further amendments these agreements encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. addition, our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, joint ventures, investments and business combinations create risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment relationships with existing employees, customers and companies with which have formed strategic alliances; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending terminating such agreements relationships; \x95 difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel combined companies; \x95 problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; and \x95 additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses. PAGEBREAK Our Investments and the Consideration Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Number Risks the past, have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances where perform certain -commerce services, and exchange for our services received cash, equity securities these companies, and additional benefits, such Web site traffic. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales made the other company. some cases, have also made separate investments the other company making cash payment exchange for equity securities that company. may the future make additional investments companies with which already have commercial agreements companies with which enter into new commercial agreements similar arrangements. the extent have received equity securities compensation, fluctuations the value such securities will affect our ultimate realization amounts have received compensation for services. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing revenue recognition these recorded unearned amounts has been changed correspond with the terms the amended agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Our investments equity securities that are not accounted for under the equity method are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 and \x93Other equity investments\x94 our balance sheets. regularly review all our investments public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines fair value. When determine that the decline fair value investment below our accounting basis other-than-temporary, reduce the carrying value the securities hold and record loss the amount any such decline. recent years, securities companies the Internet and -commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. may conclude future quarters that the fair values other these investments have experienced other-than-temporary decline. December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments,\x94 which less than $ million was accounted for under the equity-method. The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the fourth quarter our fiscal year. not stock popular products sufficient amounts and fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make partial shipments from one more locations. may experience decline our shipping margins due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. too many customers access our Web sites within short period time due increased holiday other demand, may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services our customers may unable meet the PAGEBREAK seasonal demand. Finally, , along with our customer service outsourcers, may unable adequately staff customer service centers. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result decline the amount cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities hand. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Rate Growth Due our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability our industry, may not able accurately forecast our rate growth. base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans estimates future net sales and rate growth. Our expenses and investments are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our net sales fall short our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions throughout the world. softening demand, whether caused changes consumer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth. Such attacks and security concerns could create delays and increase the cost product shipments and from , which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability expand our network sellers, and enter into, maintain, renew and amend favorable terms our strategic alliances; \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 our ability acquire merchandise, manage inventory and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction our competitors Web sites, products services; \x95 changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and -commerce; \x95 timing and costs upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the effects strategic alliances, acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability successfully integrate them into our business; \x95 technical difficulties, system downtime interruptions; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 disruptions service shipping carriers; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping promotions; and PAGEBREAK \x95 increase the prices fuel and gasoline, which are used the transportation packages, well increase the prices other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, which are used our operating facilities. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales almost all our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations the financial results the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into . Dollars upon consolidation. exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. addition, our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) are denominated Euros, not . Dollars. When periodically remeasure the principal the % PEACS based fluctuations the Euro/ . Dollar exchange ratio, will record non-cash gains losses \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 our statements operations. Furthermore, have invested some the proceeds from the % PEACS Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities. Accordingly, the . Dollar strengthens compared the Euro, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Past and Planned Future Growth Will Place Significant Strain our Management, Operational and Financial Resources have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will endeavor expand further pursue growth our product and service offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue place significant strain our management, operational and financial resources. also need train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. addition, not expect benefit our newer market segments from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book channel. Our gross profits our newer business activities may lower than our older business activities. addition, may have limited experience new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. the extent pursue strategic alliances facilitate new product service activities, the alliances may not successful. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and negatively affect revenue growth. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack Integration and Redundancy Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access our Web sites directly affects the volume goods sell and the services offer and thus affects our net sales. experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. prevent system PAGEBREAK interruptions, continually need add additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network infrastructure accommodate both increased traffic our Web sites and increased sales volume. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, would make our product offerings less attractive our customers and our service offerings less attractive third parties. While have backup systems for certain aspects our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage insurance limits compensate for losses from major interruption. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments plan, over time, continue expand our reach international market segments. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing and distributing products services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized Web sites, stores and other systems. may not succeed these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not profitable sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject number risks inherent selling abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); \x95 import export licensing requirements; \x95 limitations the repatriation funds; \x95 difficulty obtaining distribution and support; \x95 nationalization; \x95 longer receivable cycles; \x95 consumer protection laws and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower level adoption use the Internet and other technologies vital our business and the lack appropriate infrastructure support widespread Internet usage; \x95 lower level credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty developing and simultaneously managing larger number unique foreign operations result distance, language and cultural differences; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; \x95 tax and other laws the . and other jurisdictions; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel continues grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and PAGEBREAK focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand name recognition. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate -commerce other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation distribution. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international market segments. Face Significant Inventory Risk are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, particularly difficult forecast product demand accurately. failure optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make split shipments from one more locations, complimentary upgrades and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery. result our Merchants@ program relationships with Toysrus com, Babiesrus com, Target and other companies, these parties identify, buy, manage and bear the financial risk inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. result, any these parties fail forecast product demand optimize inventory, would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could harmed. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently ship completed orders customers may negatively affected number factors, including dependence limited number shipping companies, inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism acts God. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. Because difficult predict sales volume, may not manage our facilities optimal way, which may result excess insufficient inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. addition, third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality and future procurement their services. Finally, under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability failure these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, PAGEBREAK copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use our proprietary rights inherently difficult, and may not able determine the existence extent any such unauthorized use. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, cannot certain that the steps take protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms which are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. Have Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have relatively short operating history and, -commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : \x95 general economic conditions; \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 new products, services, innovations and strategic developments our competitors , business combinations and investments our competitors ; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes Internet regulation; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 additions departures key personnel; \x95 corporate restructurings, including layoffs closures facilities; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce companies; and PAGEBREAK \x95 news and securities analyst reports and speculation relating new and existing commercial agreements, general business Internet trends our existing future products services. Any these events may cause our stock price rise fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Future volatility our stock price could force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options. This option exchange offer resulted variable accounting treatment for certain our stock options. Variable accounting treatment will result unpredictable stock-based compensation expense dependent fluctuations quoted prices for our common stock. late , implemented restricted stock unit plan, which will our primary vehicle for employee stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price the common stock, which will recognized compensation expense ratably over the corresponding employee service term. Government Regulation the Internet and -commerce Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and -commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, the provision online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply the Internet and -commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate \x93auctions\x94 and \x93auctioneers\x94 and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate consumer- -consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops and certain aspects Amazon Marketplace. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. May Subject Liability for Past Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease accordance with current industry practice, not collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments most our goods into states other than Washington and North Dakota. Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record the applicable merchandise and are obligated collect sales tax most states accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. collect Value Added Tax, VAT, for products that are ordered www amazon , www amazon and www amazon and delivered European Union member countries. also collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Japan. addition, Canadian consumption taxes are collected sales products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies which engage -commerce. successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions the . Supreme Court restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit supersede the PAGEBREAK Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. any these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court\x92 constitutional concerns and resulted reversal its current position, could required collect sales and use taxes states other than Washington and North Dakota. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for and could decrease our future sales. Various countries are currently evaluating their VAT positions -commerce transactions. Recently, for example, the European Union (\x93 \x94) enacted directive requiring that businesses non- countries selling digital products and services resident consumers collect and remit VAT the country the consumer\x92 residence. This directive will become effective July , , will result additional VAT collection obligations and administrative burdens and may decrease our future sales customers the . Future VAT legislation changes our business model may have similar impacts. Source Significant Portion Our Inventory from Few Vendors Although continue increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, still source significant amount inventory from relatively few vendors. During , purchased over % all inventory purchases from single vendor, Ingram Book Group. other vendors account for over %. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current vendors were stop selling merchandise acceptable terms, may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some our products, such toys, tools, hardware, computers, cell phones, and kitchen and houseware products, may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death property damage caused such products, and may require take actions such product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also may sell products that may indirectly increase our exposure product liability claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our suppliers not indemnify from product liability. Could Liable for Breaches Security Our Web Site and Fraudulent Activities Users Our Amazon Payments Program fundamental requirement for -commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the provision online payment services and could require changes the way this business conducted. guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and may unable prevent users Amazon Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not made seller fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not shipped buyer. Our liability risk will increase larger fraction our sellers use Amazon Payments. Any costs incur result liability because our guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality Amazon Payments depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, Amazon Payments will not viable (and our businesses that use Amazon Payments may not viable). PAGEBREAK May Not Able Adapt Quickly Enough Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology the -commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet Medium for Commerce Uncertain Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce recent phenomenon and subject high level uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. use the Internet medium for commerce does not continue grow grows slower rate than anticipate, our sales would lower than expected and our business would harmed. Could Liable for Unlawful Fraudulent Activities Users Our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops Services may unable prevent users our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner. may face civil criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities our users under . laws and the laws and regulations other countries. addition, are unsuccessful preventing our users from providing content that either illegal which violates the proprietary rights others, may result liability . Any costs incur result liability relating the sale unlawful goods, the unlawful sale goods, the fraudulent receipt goods the fraudulent collection payments could harm our business. running our Merchants@ program, Merchant com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services, rely sellers make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and buyers pay the agreed purchase price. not take responsibility for delivery payment goods and, while can suspend terminate the accounts users who fail fulfill their delivery obligations, cannot require users make payments deliver goods. not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded other users except through our guarantee program. Under our guarantee program, fraudulent activities our users, such the fraudulent receipt goods and the fraudulent collection payments, may create liability for . PAGEBREAK Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors January , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Richard . Dalzell Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software and Chief Information Officer Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and again from October the present. Richard . Dalzell. . Dalzell has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November . From October until November , . Dalzell was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer and prior that, from joining Amazon com August until October , was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Mark . Peek. . Peek has served Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since July . From November July , served Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April November , served Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November . From joining Amazon com February until November , . Piacentini was Senior Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\x92 operations Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November . Previously, . Szkutak held variety positions General Electric ., including Chief Financial Officer Lighting from September September , Finance Director Plastics Europe from March September , and Executive Vice President \x97 Finance Asset Management (formerly known Investments) from May March . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service, since January . From October until January , . Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior that had been Vice President and General Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon com September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit PAGEBREAK from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary since March . She served Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from July until March . . Wilson joined Amazon com March Associate General Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance. Prior joining Amazon com, she was partner the law firm Perkins Coie LLP. Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director Madrona Venture Group . John Doerr General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Mark . Hansen Chairman and CEO Fleming Companies, Inc. Thomas . Ryder Chairman and CEO Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer President and -Chair the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation link2 "Item . Properties" Item . Properties not own any real estate. Our principal office facilities the . are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire various times through July . Our corporate office facilities (excluding customer service office space) the . comprise total , square feet. Additionally, have , square feet office space that subleased vacant that remain obligated under lease agreements that expire various times through April . Our . warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed six fulfillment centers located New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Lexington and Campbellsville, Kentucky; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These fulfillment centers comprise total approximately million square feet. Our fulfillment center leases expire from through . also lease six facilities located near our fulfillment centers, comprising approximately million square feet, which use for off-site storage and shipping. These offsite storage and shipping facilities are under relatively short-term lease agreements that expire various times through May ; following expiration, intend renew certain these leases consolidate into new offsite facilities, both. Our . customer service operations occupy approximately , square feet office space and are located Tacoma, Washington; Huntington, West Virginia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. The lease terms these facilities expire January , April and November , respectively. Our data-center facilities have , combined square feet (including approximately , square feet vacant space one facility). These facilities are under leases that expire from through . lease additional properties outside the ., including approximately , square feet corporate office space (excluding customer service office space) Germany, France, Japan and the United Kingdom (which excludes approximately , square feet vacant office space Germany); approximately , combined square feet available fulfillment center space Germany, France and the United Kingdom (which excludes approximately , square feet our United Kingdom facility that currently subleased marketed for sublease); and approximately , combined square feet customer service space Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom. The fulfillment centers Germany, PAGEBREAK the United Kingdom and France are located Bad Hersfeld, Marston Gate and Orleans, respectively, and the lease terms expire December , October and March , respectively. January , closed our fulfillment centers McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington. Our lease for the Seattle facility, which covers approximately , square feet ( portion which currently subleased) will expire April . recently negotiated termination agreement for our McDonough facility lease that accelerated the termination date December for portion the building and March for the remainder the building (contingent our payment the final termination fee). December , , the lease for our McDonough facility covered approximately , square feet. believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present and anticipated near term needs. link2 "Item . Legal Proceedings" Item . Legal Proceedings April , , received request from the SEC staff for the voluntary production documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales our common stock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, February and , . are cooperating with the SEC staff\x92 continuing inquiry. number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). October , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors and certain third parties, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through July , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. August , , the Trustee for the Creditors\x92 Trust for Living com instituted adversary proceeding against subsidiary the Company the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District Texas. The plaintiff alleges that Living com\x92 creditors are entitled contractual recovery approximately $ million fees that Living com had previously paid primarily issuing Living com stock the Company. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against the Company and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The Complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law unjust enrichment. The Complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest and declaratory relief. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, future results operations, financial position cash flows particular period. From time time, are subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual PAGEBREAK property rights. currently are not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believe will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect our business, financial condition operating results. link2 "Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders" Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our stockholders during the fourth quarter . link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Market for the Registrant&# ; Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters" Item . Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders January , , there were , stockholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. not anticipate paying any cash dividends the foreseeable future. addition, are restricted from paying cash dividends under our Senior Discount Notes. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. link2 "Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data" Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained herein Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis PAGEBREAK Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. and for the Years Ended December , ( ) ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted net loss per share( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted net loss per share( ) , , , , , Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Marketable securities , , , , , Total assets , , , , , , , , , Long-term debt , , , , , , , , , Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) ( , , ) ( , , ) ( , ) , , ( ) Reflects restatement for business acquisition accounted for under the pooling- -interests method. ( ) For further discussion loss per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 and \x93\x97 Note \x97 Earnings (Loss) Per Share.\x94 link2 "Item . Management&# ; Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations future pro forma profitability, net sales, cash flows from operations and free cash flows, all which are inherently difficult predict. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, the rate growth the economy general, the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, the amount that invest new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, risks inventory management, the degree which enter into, maintain and develop relationships with other businesses, fluctuations the value securities and non-cash payments receive connection with such transactions, foreign exchange risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion and risks fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , PAGEBREAK \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Results Operations Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data \x97 Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments conditions. Significant Accounting Policies Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost market value, which requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition (whether through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations), and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, which applied consistently from period period, record valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. Revenue Recognition generally recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable and collectibility reasonably assured. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , \x93Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent,\x94 determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary obligor transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier (commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point\x94). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns) are estimated using historical experience. PAGEBREAK periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage discounts off current purchases (\x93current discount offers\x94), offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase (\x93inducement offers\x94) and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction and are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Commissions received through our Amazon Marketplace and Merchants@ programs and amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recorded net amounts since are acting agent. Amounts earned are recognized net sales when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. earn revenues from services primarily entering into business- -business commercial agreements, including providing our technology services such search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. compensation for the services provide under these agreements, generally receive cash. the past, have accepted compensation under these arrangements equity securities, combination equity securities and cash. Generally, the fair value the equity consideration received measured when the agreement executed, but the extent that the equity consideration subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon execution the agreement, the fair value the equity consideration and corresponding revenue determined the date that the forfeiture provision lapses the vesting provision lapses. Subsequent initial measurement fair value, appreciation decline the fair value such securities will affect our ultimate realization equity securities received compensation; however, any such change does not affect the amount revenue recognized over the term the agreement. generally recognize revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenues associated with non-refundable advance payments) straight-line basis over the period during which perform services under these agreements, commencing the launch date the service. receive non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until service commences. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. have the past, and may the future, amend our agreements with certain the companies with which have commercial agreements modify future cash proceeds received , modify the service term our commercial agreements, both. Although these amendments generally not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing future revenue recognition changes correspond with the terms amended agreements. These amendments future amendments will affect the timing and amount revenues recognized connection with these commercial agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Fair Value Equity Securities Received Compensation Under Commercial Agreements For equity securities public companies received compensation under commercial agreements, generally determine fair value based the quoted market price the time enter into the underlying commercial agreement and adjust such market price appropriately significant restrictions marketability exist. Because observable market price does not exist for equity securities private companies, our estimates fair value such securities are more subjective than for the securities PAGEBREAK public companies. For significant transactions involving equity securities private companies, obtain and consider independent, third-party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use variety methodologies estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities publicly traded companies similar lines business, applying price multiples estimated future operating results for the private company, and utilizing estimated discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the otherwise fair value factor that intended account for restrictions control and marketability where appropriate. Using these valuations and other information available , such our knowledge the industry and the company itself, determine the estimated fair value the securities received. Accounting for Goodwill and Certain Other Intangibles Effective July , , adopted certain provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , \x93Business Combinations,\x94 and effective January , , adopted the full provisions SFAS . and SFAS . , \x93Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.\x94 SFAS . requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets apart from goodwill. evaluated our goodwill and intangibles acquired prior June , using the criteria SFAS . , which resulted $ million other intangibles (comprised entirely assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill January , . SFAS . requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. evaluated our intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS . prescribes two-phase process for impairment testing goodwill. The first phase screens for impairment, while the second phase ( necessary) measures the impairment. completed our first phase impairment analysis and found instances impairment our recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary during . subsequent indicators impairment have been noted. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated commencement timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. Results Operations Net Sales Net sales include the selling price consumer products sold , less promotional discounts, rebates and sales returns; outbound shipping charges billed our customers; commissions and other amounts earned from sales new and used products Amazon Marketplace; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof) for sales retail products through our Merchants@ program, such Toysrus com and Target stores www amazon com ; the selling price consumer products sold through our Syndicated Stores program, such www borders com ; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof) connection with our Merchant com program, such www target com ; amounts earned from third parties who utilize our technology services such search, browse and personalization; and amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Net sales were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. The increases net sales were primarily attributable our International segment and our BMVD segment, which increased $ million and $ million , respectively. The increases net sales were primarily PAGEBREAK attributable our International segment and our ETK segment, which increased $ million and $ million, respectively. During , revenues improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound). Net sales for our BMVD segment were $ billion, $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively, representing increase % for comparison with decline % for . This segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD/ video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from Amazon Marketplace sales these products, new, used collectible, amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement growth rates for our BMVD segment comparison with reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing efforts reduce prices for customers, including increases customer discounts books and the introduction everyday free shipping www amazon com for certain orders. Also contributing the increase growth rates for BMVD are increases unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our ETK segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. This segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through our Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement growth rates for our ETK segment comparison with reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing efforts reduce prices for customers, including increases customer discounts through price changes and rebate programs and the introduction everyday free shipping www amazon com for certain orders. Also contributing the increase growth rates for ETK are increases unit sales through Amazon Marketplace. Net sales for our International segment were $ billion, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. anticipate that the revenue base our International segment increases, the percentage growth rates will likely decline over time. During , revenues improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound). This segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . The increase net sales from our International segment results from, each the four internationally-focused Web sites, increase unit sales ( part due the introduction Amazon Marketplace www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ), and our continuing efforts reduce prices customers through increases customer discounts and free and reduced-rate shipping offers. The future growth our International segment may fluctuate significantly with changes foreign exchange rates. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Have Foreign Exchange Risk.\x94 Net sales for our Services segment were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and %, respectively. This segment consists PAGEBREAK commissions, fees and other amounts earned from our services business, including our Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such our apparel store, the Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com , well our commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The increase net sales from our Services segment results from amounts earned through our Merchants@ program and our Merchant com program, offset the expiration certain our marketing and promotional agreements. The amount compensation receive under certain these services agreements dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. See Item Part \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships.\x94 Shipping revenue (which consists outbound shipping charges our customers) across all operating segments was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Shipping revenue does not include any commissions other amounts earned from Amazon Marketplace. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified amount, and lowered this threshold several times throughout the year. offer similar shipping options for our internationally-focused Web sites and may offer other free reduced-fee shipping options over time. These shipping offers reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and cause our gross margins retail sales decline. view these shipping offers effective marketing tool. First quarter net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %. For the full year , net sales are expected grow over %. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Gross Profit Gross profit net sales less the cost sales, which consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges , packaging supplies and certain costs associated with our service revenues. Costs associated with our Services segment revenues and classified cost services generally include fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf third-party sellers, costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Effective January , , prospectively changed our inventory costing method the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase product inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the statements operations . evaluated the effect the change each quarter during and determined such effect less than $ million individually and the aggregate. determined this change preferable under accounting principles generally accepted the United States since, among other reasons, facilitates our record keeping process, significantly improves our ability provide cost-efficient fulfillment services other companies part our services offering and results increased consistency with others our industry. Gross profit was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. Increases gross profit primarily correspond with increases units sold (including increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace), improvements transportation and inventory management and improvements product sourcing, offset price reductions books and electronics, the expiration certain high-margin marketing and promotional agreements, and our free and reduced-rate shipping offers. Increases gross profit primarily correspond with improvements inventory management and product sourcing, and lesser extent, increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace. Our overall gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including PAGEBREAK our mix sales during the period (including sales through Amazon Marketplace), competitive pricing decisions and general efforts reduce prices for our customers over time, well the extent which provide free and reduced-rate shipping offers. Gross profit for our BMVD segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. The slight improvement gross margin corresponds with the increase higher margin sales through Amazon Marketplace, improvements transportation costs and inventory management, and continued improvements product sourcing, offset price reductions and our everyday free shipping offer. Gross profit for our ETK segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was % for and and % for . , improvements product sourcing, inventory management and transportation management, along with lower transportation costs, were offset price reductions and our everyday free shipping offer. , improvement gross margin primarily reflects improvements product sourcing and inventory management. During , sales products through Amazon Marketplace increased significantly comparison the prior year. product sales through Amazon Marketplace continue increase, anticipate improvement gross margin, offset the extent offer additional broader price reductions, free shipping offers and other promotions. Gross profit for our International segment was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing increases % and % for and , respectively. Gross margin was % for and , and % for . The increase gross profit reflects increases units sold each our four internationally-focused Web sites included this segment ( part due the introduction Amazon Marketplace www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ), offset continuing efforts reduce prices for our customers. During , gross profit improved $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates (specifically the weakening the . Dollar comparison the Euro and the British Pound).The increase gross profit reflects increases units sold our www amazon and www amazon sites, well the launch our www amazon and www amazon sites during the second half . Gross profit for our Services segment was $ million for and and $ million for , representing flat gross profit and increase % for . Costs associated with our service revenues generally include fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf other businesses, including costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Gross margin was %, % and % for , and , respectively. Gross profit from our Services segment largely corresponds with revenues from our commercial agreements, which includes our Merchant com program and, the extent product categories are not also offered through our online retail stores, the Merchants@ program, well amounts earned through miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The decline gross margin from our Services segment relates service costs classified cost sales resulting from the shift the mix our commercial relationships towards agreements that incorporate broader range services, including fulfillment. Also contributing the decline Services gross margin was the expiration certain high-margin marketing and promotional agreements. expect Services segment margins will decline again since high-margin marketing arrangements are expected represent lower percentage our overall revenue mix for this segment. See Item Part \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results \x97 Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships.\x94 Shipping loss across all operating segments was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The loss from shipping primarily reflects the free and reduced-rate shipping offers, offset part cost reductions from efficiencies our outbound shipping. continue measure our shipping results relative their effect our overall financial results, with the viewpoint that shipping PAGEBREAK promotions are effective marketing tool. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified purchase thresholds. offer similar shipping option for our internationally-focused Web sites and may offer other free reduced-fee shipping options over time. expect continue offering our customers free shipping options which reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and negatively affect gross margins. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-party -sourcers that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain Services segment fulfillment-related costs incurred behalf other businesses are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Fulfillment costs were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The improvement fulfillment costs percentage net sales results from improvements productivity and accuracy, the increase units fulfilled helping leverage the fixed-cost portion our fulfillment network, decline customer service contacts per order resulting from improvements our operations and enhancements our customer self-service features available our Web sites. These improvements were offset, part, increases employee wages and benefits and credit card interchange fees associated with Amazon Marketplace, which represent higher percent commissions earned relative amounts earned from retail sales our inventory. Additionally, the comparisons between and (and lesser extent the comparisons between and ) were affected the closures our fulfillment centers McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington, and customer service centers The Hague, Netherlands and Seattle, Washington. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. Marketing expenses, net -operative marketing reimbursements, were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Declines expense for marketing-related activities reflect management efforts cut ineffective marketing programs, well reduced rates charged for some online marketing activities. These decreases are partially offset increased investment marketing channels considered most effective driving incremental net sales, such targeted online advertising through various Web portals and our Associates program. January , introduced new shipping option www amazon com , offering everyday free shipping for certain orders that exceed specified amount. offer similar shipping options for our internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses not include our free and reduced shipping offers, view such offers effective marketing tool. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The decline absolute dollars spent for each comparative period primarily reflects our migration technology platform that utilizes less-costly technology infrastructure, well improved expense management and general price reductions most expense categories. expect continue invest technology and improvements our Web sites, which may PAGEBREAK include, but are not limited , hiring additional employees, offering additional Web site features and product categories our customers and implementing additional commercial relationships, well potentially continuing our international expansion. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, human resources, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, representing %, % and % net sales, respectively. The decline general and administrative costs primarily attributable decline facility and depreciation costs resulting from our operational restructuring plan that consolidated our corporate office locations, and through continued efforts improve efficiency. The decline general and administrative costs attributable reductions most administrative expense categories, including employee-related, facility and depreciation costs, supplies and other miscellaneous charges, well decreased costs result our operational restructuring. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment certain stock options and restricted stock issued certain key employees, well amounts associated with our newly-implemented restricted stock unit program. Stock-based compensation also includes, lesser extent, portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure certain key employees acquired businesses. Under our restricted stock unit program, which commenced the fourth quarter , award restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding employee service period. the extent restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation associated with our restricted stock unit program was $ million . The number shares common stock subject outstanding vested and unvested employee stock awards (including restricted stock units) was approximately million and million, % and % our outstanding common stock, December , and , respectively. During the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options, which resulted variable accounting treatment for approximately million stock options December , , including approximately million options granted under the exchange offer that have exercise prices $ and expire the third quarter . Variable accounting treatment results unpredictable and potentially significant charges credits recorded \x93Stock-based compensation,\x94 dependent fluctuations quoted prices for our common stock. have quantified the hypothetical effect \x93Stock-based compensation\x94 associated with various quoted prices our common stock, which are unable forecast accurately, using sensitivity analysis for our outstanding stock options subject variable accounting December , . have provided this information give additional insight into the volatility will experience our future results operations the extent that the quoted price for our common stock above $ . This sensitivity analysis not prediction future performance the quoted prices our common stock. Using the following hypothetical market prices our common stock above $ (including the actual expense associated with options exercised), our hypothetical cumulative compensation expense PAGEBREAK December , resulting from variable accounting treatment would have been follows ( thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): Hypothetical . Actual Cumulative Hypothetical Increase Hypothetical Market Hypothetical Cumulative Compensation Expense Over $ Price per Share Compensation Expense December , % $ $ , $ ( , ) % , ( , ) % , , % , , % , , Actual variable-accounting related compensation could differ significantly from the above illustration instances where options are exercised during period prices that differ from the closing stock price for the reporting period. December , , the Company\x92 common stock closed $ , representing increase % over $ . Cumulative compensation expense associated with variable accounting treatment was $ million, which $ million associated with options exercised and therefore longer subject future variability. the end any fiscal quarter the quoted price our common stock lower than the quoted price the end the previous fiscal quarter, the extent previously-recorded amounts relate unvested portions options that were cancelled, compensation expense associated with variable accounting will recalculated using the cumulative expense method and may result net benefit our results operations. Amortization Goodwill and Other Intangibles Amortization goodwill and other intangibles was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The decline amortization goodwill and intangibles primarily results from our adoption SFAS . , which resulted $ million intangible assets, comprised assembled workforce intangibles, being subsumed into goodwill, and our adoption SFAS . , which requires that goodwill longer amortized. The decline amortization goodwill and intangibles results from impairment loss $ million recorded the fourth quarter associated with certain our business acquisitions. This impairment loss reduced our recorded basis goodwill and other intangibles and had the effect reducing amortization expense during . Restructuring-Related and Other Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. the first quarter , announced and began implementation our operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline our organizational structure, consolidate certain our fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation our Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure our McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation our Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure our customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however may adjust our restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. During , revised our estimates ongoing net lease obligations for our facilities Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due weakness these real estate markets; reached termination agreement with the landlord our leased fulfillment center facility McDonough, Georgia, PAGEBREAK which requires payments totaling $ million ( which $ million was paid December , with the balance payable the first quarter ); and permanently closed our fulfillment center Seattle, Washington. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees, and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance Balance December , Subsequent December , Due Within Due After Accruals, Net Payments Months( ) Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) , , , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 respectively, our consolidated balance sheets. Cash payments resulting from our operational restructuring were $ million and $ million for and , respectively. estimate, based currently available information, the remaining net cash outflows associated with our restructuring-related commitments will follows ( thousands): Leases Other Total Years Ending December , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , \x97 , , \x97 , Thereafter , \x97 , Total estimated cash outflows $ , $ , $ , PAGEBREAK Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Restructuring-related and other expenses primarily relate impairments goodwill and other intangibles recorded connection with certain our business acquisitions. Income (Loss) from Operations Our results from operations were income $ million and losses $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The improvement operating results comparison with the prior year was attributable increase gross profit; reduction certain operating costs including marketing, technology and content and general and administrative; decline restructuring-related charges; well decline amortization goodwill and other intangibles primarily due the adoption SFAS . ; offset stock-based compensation charges associated primarily with certain our employee stock options under variable accounting treatment. are unable forecast accurately the effect our future reported results associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Interest income was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively, and interest expense was $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Interest income declined comparison with primarily result declining interest rates, offset part increases the average balance cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income declined comparison with due primarily decreases the average balance cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest expense primarily related our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94), and our Senior Discount Notes. The increase interest expense for comparison with primarily associated with our February issuance the % PEACS. December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion. Beginning November , will begin make semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK Other Gains (Losses), Net Other gains (losses), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gains (losses) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ , $ \x97 Gains (losses) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , ( , ) \x97 Other-than-temporary impairment losses equity investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Gains sales equity investments, net , \x97 \x97 Gains from terminations commercial contracts \x97 , , Net gains from acquisition investments third parties \x97 , Warrant remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) \x97 $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees Equity losses equity-method investees represents our share losses companies which have investments that give the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. This influence generally defined ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %, although other factors, such representation our investee\x92 Board Directors and the effect commercial arrangements, are considered determining whether the equity method accounting appropriate. Equity-method losses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Our basis equity-method investments was less than $ million, and $ million December , and , respectively. equity-method losses are only recorded until the underlying investments are reduced zero, expect, absent additional investments, equity-method losses future periods insignificant. Income Taxes have provided for current and deferred . federal, state and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where certain our subsidiaries produce taxable income. December , , have recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. have provided valuation allowance for the remainder our deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. December , , had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begins expire . Approximately $ billion our net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Net Loss Net loss was $ million, $ million and $ billion for , and , respectively. Year over year improvements during and result from variety factors, including growth net PAGEBREAK sales, overall declines operating costs (offset stock-based compensation charges associated primarily with certain our employee stock options under variable accounting treatment), lower impairment charges associated with our investment portfolio and declines losses from equity-method investments, offset losses arising from the remeasurement our % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars. Although reported fourth quarter net income $ million, believe that this positive net income result should not viewed material positive event and not predictive future results for variety reasons. For example, excluding the $ million restructuring-related gain associated with our McDonough, Georgia, fulfillment center lease-termination agreement, would have reported net loss the fourth quarter . Alternatively, excluding the $ million stock-based compensation charge associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options that resulted from increase our stock price during the fourth quarter, excluding the $ million foreign exchange loss the remeasurement our PEACS from Euros . Dollars, would have reported more net income the fourth quarter . are unable forecast the effect our future reported results certain items, including the stock-based compensation charges credits associated with variable accounting treatment certain our employee stock options that will result from fluctuations our stock price, and the gain loss associated with our % PEACS that will result from fluctuations foreign exchange rates. Unearned Revenue During and , activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , $ , Cash received accounts receivable , Fair value equity securities received Amortization revenue ( , ) Contract termination ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , During , recorded previously unearned revenue associated with the termination our commercial agreement with Kozmo com, which was included \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, amounts associated with the Kozmo com commercial agreement were previously recognized \x93Net sales\x94 during any period. Pro Forma Results Operations provide certain pro forma information regarding our results from operations, which excludes the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 stock-based compensation, \x95 amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and \x95 restructuring-related and other. PAGEBREAK also provide certain pro forma information regarding our net loss, which excludes, addition the line items described above, the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 other gains (losses), net, \x95 equity losses equity-method investees, net, and \x95 cumulative effect change accounting principle. This pro forma information not presented accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Pro forma results are provided complement results provided accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Our management uses such pro forma measures internally evaluate our performance, prepare and measure our operating plan and manage our operations. Our management believes pro forma measures provide useful information investors regarding our financial condition and results operations because pro forma results exclude certain items that are unpredictable and outside our control, not settled cash, both, such the effects foreign exchange rates \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 and the effect the changes the price the Company\x92 common stock \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Other amounts, such charges associated with our operational restructuring, are excluded provide our management and investors information relating ongoing operations. All pro forma results are derived from information presented our financial statements. For information about our financial results, reported accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\x94 PAGEBREAK Full year and corresponding quarterly pro forma results operations, and certain cash flow information for , and , were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income from operations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Pro forma net income (loss) $ , $ , $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma income from operations percentage net sales % % % % % Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic income (loss) per share , , , , , Shares used computation pro forma diluted income (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma income (loss) from operations $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma income (loss) from operations percentage net sales ( )% % ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic income (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted income (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic income (loss) per share , , , , , Shares used computation pro forma diluted income (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Full Year Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Pro forma loss from operations $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma loss from operations percentage net sales ( )% ( )% ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic and diluted loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation pro forma basic and diluted loss per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK The following reconciliation our pro forma results for , and . Quarterly reconciliations are consistent with full-year presentation. Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Pro Forma Pro Forma Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma ( ( ( thousands) thousands) thousands) Net sales $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , Cost sales , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , Gross profit , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Marketing , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Technology and content , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , General and administrative , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Stock-based compensation , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Restructuring- related and other , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Total operating expenses , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , Income (loss) from operations , , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Interest income , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Interest expense ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other income (expense), net , \x97 , ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other gains (losses), net ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Total non- operating expenses, net ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Income (loss) before equity losses equity- method investees ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , , ) , ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Income (loss) before change accounting principle ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) ( , , ) , ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( , ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic income (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Diluted income (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Shares used computation income (loss) per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , ( ) accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. PAGEBREAK First quarter pro forma net profit expected between $ million and $ million, between $ per share and $ per share. Pro forma net profit for full year expected over $ million, over $ per share. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $ million, $ million and $ million, and our marketable securities balance was $ million, $ million and $ million December , , and , respectively. Combined cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $ billion, $ million and $ billion December , , and , respectively. Equity securities $ million are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 December , , the value which may fluctuate significantly. Equity securities $ million and $ million were included \x93Marketable securities\x94 December , and , respectively. have pledged portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign-exchange rate risk portion our % PEACS; and some our real estate lease agreements. The amount marketable securities are required pledge pursuant the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value the swap obligation. The change the total amount collateral pledged under these agreements was follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Swap Real Estate Credit Agreement Leases Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , December , , our principal commitments consisted long-term indebtedness totaling $ billion related primarily our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes; trade payables $ million; and accrued expenses and other liabilities $ million, which includes current restructuring-related obligations $ million. Additionally, are scheduled under certain our long-term debt obligations make periodic interest payments through the aggregate $ million, and are obligated under operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements the aggregate $ million and $ million, respectively. The following are our contractual commitments associated with our operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing agreements ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , PAGEBREAK Thereafter Total Other commitments: Debt principal and other( ) , , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases , , , , , , , Marketing agreements , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) Principal and interest payments due under the Company\x92 % PEACS, excluding those payments with fixed exchange ratio under the currency swap hedge arrangement, will fluctuate based the Euro/ . Dollar exchange ratio. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Long-term capital lease obligations $ Net cash provided used operating activities consists net loss offset certain adjustments not affecting current-period cash flows, and the effect changes working capital. Adjustments net loss determine cash flows from operations include depreciation and amortization, equity losses investees and other items not affecting cash flows the current period. Net cash provided operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ million that was offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ million, and changes working capital $ million. Adjustments not affecting cash flows were primarily associated with losses resulting from the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars, depreciation fixed assets, stock-based compensation and non-cash interest expense. Net cash used operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ million, offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ million and changes working capital $ million. Net cash used operating activities during was $ million, resulting from our net loss $ billion, offset adjustments not affecting cash flows $ billion and changes working capital $ million. Cash used investing activities during was $ million, consisting net purchases marketable securities $ million and purchases fixed assets $ million. Cash used investing activities during was $ million, consisting net purchases marketable securities PAGEBREAK $ million, purchases fixed assets $ million and cash paid for acquired assets $ million. Cash provided investing activities during was $ million, consisting net sales marketable securities $ million offset cash paid for investments $ million and purchases fixed assets $ million. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million, consisting primarily proceeds from exercises stock options, offset repayments long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million, consisting primarily proceeds from the issuance common stock America Online well exercises stock options, offset repayments long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided financing activities during was $ million consisting primarily net proceeds from issuance million Euros % PEACS. expect cash proceeds from exercises employee stock options decline over time plan issue restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee stock-based awards. believe that current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. addition, expect have positive free cash flow (operating cash flow less purchases fixed assets) for fiscal year . However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business \x97 Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position. The sale additional equity convertible debt securities could result additional dilution our stockholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition investment complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement debt, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. There can assurance that financing will available amounts terms acceptable , all. link2 "Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk" Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x97 Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. PAGEBREAK The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts were follows ( thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Commercial paper and short- term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts are follows ( thousands, except percentages): Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds \x97 , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate \x97 % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % PAGEBREAK Estimated Fair Value December , Thereafter Total Treasury notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed- income securities $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , December , , have long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % PEACS, % Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes, which are due , and , respectively. Our payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised interest payments, principal payments, combination thereof. The market value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively, and the fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from five our internationally-focused Web sites ( www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales generated from these Web sites, well most the related expenses incurred, are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding Web sites. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada, respectively. Results operations from our foreign subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed foreign exchange fluctuations the financial results these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars average rates prevailing during the year upon consolidation. exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. The effect foreign exchange fluctuations for our internationally-focused Web sites increased net sales $ million and increased results from operations $ million. December , , were also exposed foreign exchange risk related Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities (\x93Euro Investments\x94), well our % PEACS. December , the Euro Investments, classified available-for-sale, had balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Our % PEACS have outstanding principal balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ), which million Euros principal hedged. Based the outstanding Euro Investment balance December , , assumed %, % and % strengthening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result corresponding decline the total fair value such investments approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. Based the outstanding (unhedged) % PEACS\x92 principal balance million Euros December , , assumed %, % and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result corresponding currency losses approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively, recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 hedge the foreign exchange risk our % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros and portion the interest payments using cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, PAGEBREAK agreed pay inception and receive upon maturity million Euros exchange for receiving inception and paying maturity $ million. addition, agreed receive February each year million Euros corresponding with interest payments million Euros the % PEACS and, simultaneously, pay $ million. This agreement cancelable, whole part, our option cost after February , our common stock price (converted into Euros) greater than equal Euros, the minimum conversion price the % PEACS. account for the swap agreement cash flow hedge the risk exchange rate fluctuations the debt principal and interest. Gains and losses the swap agreement are initially recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 our balance sheets and recognized \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 our statements operations upon the recognition the corresponding currency losses and gains the remeasurement the % PEACS. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments.\x94 invest the stock and warrants both private and public companies, including companies with which have formed commercial relationships, primarily for strategic purposes. December , , held investments publicly-traded and privately held companies with recorded basis $ million and $ million, respectively. regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During , recorded impairment losses totaling $ million write-down several our equity securities fair value. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, % and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. PAGEBREAK link2 "Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements Operations Consolidated Statements Cash Flows Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Notes Consolidated Financial Statements PAGEBREAK REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 equity (deficit) and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the full provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Business Combinations, and . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective January , . The Company also adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, effective January , . addition, discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out method accounting. / / ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December , December , ( thousands, except per share data) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Fixed assets, net , , Goodwill, net , , Other intangibles, net , , Other equity investments , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , , $ , , LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Unearned revenue , , Interest payable , , Current portion long-term debt and other , , Total current liabilities , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 deficit: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares \x97 , Issued and outstanding shares \x97 none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares \x97 , , Issued and outstanding shares \x97 , and , shares, respectively , , Additional paid- capital , , , , Deferred stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) , ( , ) Accumulated deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total stockholders\x92 deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 deficit $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS Years Ended December , ( thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Stock-based compensation( ) , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Restructuring-related and other , , , Total operating expenses , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net , ( , ) ( , ) Other gains (losses), net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Loss before equity losses equity-method investees ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Loss before change accounting principle ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) \x97 Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Basic and diluted loss per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation loss per share: Basic and diluted , , , ( ) Components stock-based compensation: Fulfillment $ , $ $ ( , ) Marketing , ( ) Technology and content , , , General and administrative , ( ) $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS Years Ended December , ( thousands) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) Adjustments reconcile net loss net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Equity losses equity-method investees, net , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Non-cash restructuring-related and other , , , Gain sale marketable securities, net ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other losses (gains), net , , , Non-cash interest expense and other , , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) , \x97 Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( , ) , ( , ) Accounts payable , ( , ) , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , , Unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest payable , ( ) , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , ( , ) ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and Web site development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investments equity-method investees and other investments \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) , FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercise stock options and other , , , Proceeds from issuance common stock, net issuance costs \x97 , \x97 Proceeds from long-term debt and other \x97 , , Repayment capital lease obligations and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing costs \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net cash provided financing activities , , , Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) ( , ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( , ) , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements $ , $ , $ , Equity securities received for commercial agreements \x97 , Stock issued connection with business acquisitions and minority investments \x97 , , Cash paid for interest , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY (DEFICIT) Accumulated Total Common Stock Additional Deferred Other Stockholders\x92 Paid- Stock-Based Comprehensive Accumulated Equity Shares Amount Capital Compensation Income (Loss) Deficit (Deficit) ( thousands) Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , , ) ( , , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , , ) Issuance capital stock, net issuance costs , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Public offering equity-method investee \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments \x97 \x97 ( , ) , \x97 \x97 ( , ) Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized losses Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Issuance capital stock, net issuance costs , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Repayments note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments , , ( , ) \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized gains Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 \x97 ( , ) Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Variable accounting and other stock compensation amortization \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , , ) $ ( , , ) See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97 Description Business and Accounting Policies Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . The Company seeks offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. The Company and its sellers list new, used and collectible items categories such apparel and accessories, electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through Amazon Marketplace, the Merchants@ program, zShops and Auctions, participating businesses individuals can sell their products Amazon com\x92 customers. The Company operates six global Web sites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . The Company also owns and operates the Internet Movie Database www imdb com (\x93IMDb\x94), which source information movie and entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb Pro, subscription service designed for the entertainment industry. Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities, incentive discount offers, valuation investments, taxes and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Business Combinations For business combinations that have been accounted for under the purchase method accounting, the Company includes the results operations the acquired business from the date acquisition. Net assets the companies acquired are recorded their fair value the date acquisition. The excess the purchase price over the fair value tangible and identifiable intangible net assets acquired included goodwill the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company classifies all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are valued the lower cost market value. The Company makes judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition (whether through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations), and PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, which applied consistently from period period, the Company records valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount its inventories lower cost market value. Accounting Changes Inventories Effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the consolidated statements operations. The Company evaluated the effect the change each quarter and determined such effect less than $ million individually and the aggregate. The Company determined this change preferable under accounting principles generally accepted the United States since, among other reasons, facilitates the Company\x92 record keeping process, significantly improves its ability provide cost-efficient fulfillment services third-party companies part its services offering and results increased consistency with others the industry. The Company received letter preferability for this change inventory costing from its independent auditors. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Effective July , , the Company adopted certain provisions Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , \x93Business Combinations,\x94 and effective January , , the Company adopted the full provisions SFAS . and SFAS . , \x93Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.\x94 SFAS . requires business combinations initiated after June , accounted for using the purchase method accounting, and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets apart from goodwill. The Company evaluated its goodwill and intangibles acquired prior June , using the criteria SFAS . , which resulted $ million other intangibles (comprised entirely assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill January , . SFAS . requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. The Company evaluated its intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS . prescribes two-phase process for impairment testing goodwill. The first phase screens for impairment; while the second phase ( necessary) measures the impairment. The Company completed its first phase impairment analysis during the first quarter and found instances impairment its recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary. subsequent indicators impairment have been noted the Company. accordance with Accounting Principles Board (\x93APB\x94) Opinion . , \x93Accounting Changes,\x94 the effect these accounting changes reflected prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure, the change had been retroactively applied, follows ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net loss: Reported net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Goodwill amortization( ) \x97 , , Inventory costing change( ) ( ) Adjusted net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) For the Years Ended December , Basic and diluted loss per share: Reported loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Goodwill amortization( ) \x97 Inventory costing change( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 Adjusted basic and diluted loss per share $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes $ million and $ million, $ and $ per share, for and , respectively, related amortization other intangibles that are classified goodwill effective January , . ( ) The inventory costing change reflects the cumulative adjustment through that date. Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased under capital leases, are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software, including software used upgrade and enhance the Company\x92 Web sites. The Company expenses all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software (generally two years). Goodwill and Other Intangibles Other intangibles consist the following ( thousands): December , December , Gross Other Gross Other Carrying Accumulated Intangibles, Carrying Accumulated Intangibles, Amount Amortization Net Amount Amortization Net Contract-based $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Marketing-related , ( , ) , ( , ) , Technology-based , ( , ) , ( , ) Customer-related , ( , ) , ( ) , Assembled workforce( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 , ( , ) , Other intangibles $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) January , , accordance with SFAS . , the Company reclassified its assembled workforce intangibles into goodwill. December , and , goodwill was $ million and $ million, respectively, stated net accumulated amortization $ million ( which $ million accumulated amortization was reclassified with the adoption SFAS . January , ) and $ million, respectively. During , goodwill other intangibles were acquired, impaired, disposed, and consistent with SFAS . , goodwill amortization was recorded. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized the end . Amortization expense for the net carrying amount intangible assets December , estimated $ million , and less than $ million . Investments Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the Company the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. Significant influence generally deemed exist the Company has ownership interest the voting stock the investee between % and %, although other factors, such representation the investee\x92 Board Directors and the effect commercial arrangements, are considered determining whether the equity method accounting appropriate. The Company records its equity the income losses these investees generally one month arrears for private companies and three months arrears for public companies. The Company records its investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other equity investments\x94 and its share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Equity losses equity-method investees, net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. All other equity investments, which consist investments for which the Company does not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, the Company classifies its equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets the Company does not have the intent hold the investment for over one year from the balance sheet date. cases where the Company has the intent hold such investments for over one year from the balance sheet date, such investments are included \x93Other equity investments.\x94 The Company also invests certain marketable debt securities, which consist primarily high-quality short- intermediate-term fixed income securities that are classified available-for-sale securities. Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. The initial cost the Company\x92 investments determined based the fair value the investment the time its acquisition. The Company has received equity securities consideration for services performed for the issuer under commercial agreements. such cases, the Company has estimated the fair value the equity securities received. For securities public companies, the Company generally determines fair value based the quoted market price the time the Company enters into the underlying agreement, and adjusts such market price appropriately significant restrictions marketability exist. observable market price does not exist for equity securities private companies, estimates fair value such securities are more subjective than for securities public companies. For significant transactions involving equity securities private companies, the Company obtains and considers independent, third party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use variety methodologies estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities publicly traded companies similar lines business, applying price multiples estimated future operating results for the private company, and estimating discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the fair value account for restrictions control and marketability where appropriate. Using these valuations and other PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) information available the Company, such the Company\x92 knowledge the industry and knowledge specific information about the investee, the Company determines the estimated fair value the securities received. the extent that equity securities are subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon signing the agreements, the fair value the securities determined the date the respective forfeiture vesting provisions lapse. The Company periodically evaluates whether the declines fair value its investments are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists review qualitative and quantitative factors members senior management. For investments with publicly quoted market prices, the Company generally considers decline other-than-temporary impairment the quoted market price less than its accounting basis for two consecutive quarters, absent evidence the contrary. The Company considers additional factors determine whether declines fair value are other-than-temporary, such the investee\x92 financial condition, results operations, operating trends and other financial ratios. The evaluation also considers publicly available information regarding the investee companies, including reports from investment analysts and other publicly available investee-specific news general market conditions. For investments private companies with quoted market price, the Company considers similar qualitative and quantitative factors and also considers the implied value from any recent rounds financing completed the investee, well market prices comparable public companies. The Company generally requires its private investees deliver monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements assist reviewing relevant financial data and assist determining whether such data may indicate other-than-temporary declines fair value below the Company\x92 accounting basis. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. The Company does not perform periodic assessment assets for impairment the absence such information indicators. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets held and used, the Company recognizes impairment loss only its carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted cash flows and measures the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and fair value. Long-lived assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Other Assets Other assets consist primarily fees incurred connection with the issuance the Company\x92 debt. These fees are amortized ratably component interest expense over the life the underlying debt. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments, whether received cash equity securities, are received advance the Company\x92 performance the underlying agreement. Unearned revenue amortized ratably over the period which services are provided. instances where the Company receives equity securities compensation for services provided under commercial arrangements, the fair value these securities, less the net amount cash paid for them, then recorded unearned revenue. Pursuant Emerging Issues Task Force Issue . - , \x93Accounting Grantee for Equity Instrument Received Conjunction with Providing Goods Services,\x94 the Company does not adjust unearned revenue give effect either increases decreases PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) value the equity securities subsequent their initial measurement ( the extent that such securities are not subject vesting forfeiture). Income Taxes The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. The Company provides valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets the extent such assets are not expected realized. Revenue Recognition The Company generally recognizes revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. The Company evaluates the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , \x93Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent,\x94 determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when the Company the primary obligor transaction, subject inventory risk, has latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, has several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. the Company not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, the Company generally records the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon the Company\x92 delivery the carrier (commonly referred \x93 . Shipping Point\x94). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue management\x92 best estimate expected product returns) are estimated using historical experience. The Company periodically provides incentive offers its customers encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage discounts off current purchases (\x93current discount offers\x94), offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase (\x93inducement offers\x94) and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction and are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Inducement offers, when accepted customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using the Company\x92 historical experience for similar inducement offers. Commissions received sales products through Amazon Marketplace, well commissions earned through the Company\x92 Merchants@ program (see \x93Note \x97 Segment Information\x94), are recorded net amount since the Company acting agent such transactions. addition, the Company recognizes amounts earned through its Merchant program (see \x93Note \x97 Segment Information\x94) net amount. Amounts earned are recognized net sales when the item sold the third-party seller and collectibility reasonably assured. The Company records allowance for refunds such commissions using historical experience. The Company earns revenues from services primarily entering into commercial agreements, including providing its technology services such search, browse, and personalization; permitting third parties offer products services through its Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with our without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial agreements also include PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. compensation for the services the Company provides under these agreements, the Company receives cash, equity securities, combination thereof. Generally, the fair value the equity consideration received measured when the agreement executed, but the extent that the equity consideration subject forfeiture vesting provisions and significant performance commitment exists upon execution the agreement, the fair value the equity consideration and corresponding revenue determined the date that the forfeiture provision lapses the vesting provision lapses. Subsequent initial measurement fair value, appreciation decline the fair value such securities will affect the Company\x92 ultimate realization equity securities received compensation; however, any such change does not affect the amount revenue recognized over the term the agreement. The Company generally recognizes revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenue associated with non-refundable advance payments) straight-line basis over the period during which the Company performs services under these agreements, commencing the launch date the service. the Company receives non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until service commences. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company has the past, and may the future, amend its agreements with certain the companies with which has commercial agreements modify future cash proceeds received the Company, modify the service term its commercial agreements, both. Although these amendments generally not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded the Company ( any), the timing future revenue recognition changes correspond with the terms amended agreements. These amendments future amendments will affect the timing and amount revenues recognized connection with these commercial agreements. the extent the Company believes any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, the Company limits its revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Outbound shipping charges customers are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold the Company, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies and certain costs associated with service revenues. Costs associated with service revenues classified cost services generally include direct and allocated indirect fulfillment-related costs ship products behalf third-party sellers, costs provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , and , respectively. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing the Company\x92 fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable : receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers\x92 orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-party -sourcers that assist the Company fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain Services PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) segment fulfillment-related costs incurred behalf other businesses are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising, promotional, and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. The Company expenses general media advertising costs incurred. The Company enters into certain online promotional agreements with third parties increase traffic its Web sites. Costs associated with these promotional agreements consist fixed payments, variable activity-based payments, combination the two. Fixed payments are amortized ratably over the corresponding agreement term and variable payments are expensed the period incurred. The Company receives reimbursements from vendors for certain general media and other advertising costs. Such reimbursements are recorded reduction expense. Advertising expense and other promotional costs were $ million, $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Prepaid advertising costs were $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations personnel; and systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software, including upgrades and enhancements the Company\x92 Web sites, that are capitalized and depreciated over two years. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, net accumulated depreciation, was $ million and $ million December , and , respectively. Costs capitalized during the application development stage for internal-use software, offset corresponding amortization, was net expense $ million , and net deferrals $ million and $ million and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment certain stock options, restricted stock issued certain key employees and amounts associated with the Company\x92 restricted stock unit program, which commenced the fourth quarter . Stock-based compensation also includes, lesser extent, portion acquisition-related consideration conditioned the continued tenure certain key employees acquired businesses. The Company generally has four categories employee stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, fixed-award stock options and options subject variable accounting treatment. December , , the Company has three stock-based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described \x93Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit).\x94 The Company accounts for those plans under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting results stock compensation expense the extent option exercise prices are set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent employee stock awards have been subject exchange offer other modifications, such awards are subject variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based quoted prices the Company\x92 common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Restricted stock and restricted stock units are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price the Company\x92 common stock. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding employee service period. the extent restricted stock restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation associated with restricted stock units was $ million during . During the first quarter , the Company offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options. The exchange resulted the voluntary cancellation employee stock options purchase million shares common stock with varying exercise prices exchange for employee stock options purchase million shares common stock with exercise price $ . The option exchange offer resulted variable accounting treatment for, the time the exchange, approximately million stock options, which includes options granted under the exchange offer and million options, with weighted average exercise price $ , that were subject the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable accounting will continue until all options subject variable accounting treatment are exercised, cancelled expired. December , , approximately million options remain under variable accounting treatment, which includes million options granted under the exchange offer and million options, with weighted average exercise price $ , that were subject the exchange offer but were not exchanged. The following table summarizes relevant information reported results under the Company\x92 intrinsic value method accounting for stock awards, with supplemental information the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Stock Based Compensation,\x94 had been applied ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net loss, reported $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Add: Stock-based compensation, reported , , , Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined under fair value based method for all awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Adjusted net loss, fair value method for all stock-based awards $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Basic and diluted loss per share \x97 reported $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted loss per share \x97 SFAS . adjusted $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) The fair value for each option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming expected dividends and the following weighted average assumptions: For the Years Ended December , Average risk-free interest rates % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % The weighted average fair value stock awards (including restricted stock units granted ) granted during , and was $ , $ and $ , respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Foreign Currency The Company has the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . Net sales generated from these Web sites, well most the related expenses incurred, are denominated the functional currencies the Web sites. Additionally, the functional currency the Company\x92 subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada, respectively. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 deficit. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved, are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97 Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 Derivative Financial Instruments Effective January , , the Company adopted SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,\x94 which requires that all derivative instruments recorded the balance sheet fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current results operations other comprehensive income (loss) depending whether derivative designated part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. For derivative designated fair value hedge, the gain loss the derivative the period change and the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the hedged risk are recognized results operations. For derivative designated cash flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified into results operations when the hedged exposure affects results operations. The ineffective portion the gain loss cash flow hedge recognized currently results operations. For derivative not designated hedging instrument, the gain loss recognized currently results operations. The Company exposed the risk fluctuations foreign exchange rates between the . Dollar and the Euro associated with its % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) (See \x93Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other\x94). minimize portion the risk from this exposure, the Company has designated swap agreement cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest based upon the criteria established SFAS . . The terms the hedge instrument have been structured match the related terms the hedged portion the % PEACS. net gains losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness were recognized results operations during the years ended December , and , respectively. The Company holds warrants purchase equity securities other companies. Warrants that can exercised and settled delivery net shares such that the Company pays cash upon exercise are deemed derivative financial instruments. Net share warrants are not designated hedging instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 the period change. The Company determines the fair value its warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for its private-company warrants. The adoption SFAS . January , resulted cumulative transition losses $ million included the results operations and stockholders\x92 deficit adjustment $ million. Transition losses included \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 warrants previously reported fair value and classified available-for-sale, and approximately $ million PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) losses warrants previously reported cost. warrant investments are designated hedging instruments. Transition losses \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses the swap agreement designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS offset the approximately $ million losses reclassified results operations derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Effective January , , currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Prior January , , % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros was designated hedge equivalent amount Euro-denominated investments classified available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses the % PEACS were recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 the consolidated balance sheets hedging offsets currency gains and losses the Euro-denominated investments. this hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions SFAS . , commencing January , , the foreign currency change resulting from the portion the % PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities now being recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding during the period, net shares subject restrictions, and excludes any dilutive effects options warrants, restricted stock units and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share computed using the weighted average number common and common stock equivalent shares outstanding (including the effect restricted stock units) during the period; common stock equivalent shares are excluded from the computation their effect antidilutive. Recent Accounting Pronouncements August , the FASB issued SFAS . , \x93Accounting for the Impairment Disposal Long-Lived Assets,\x94 that applicable financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December , . The FASB\x92 new rules asset impairment supersede SFAS . , \x93Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed ,\x94 and portions Accounting Principles Bulletin Opinion , \x93Reporting the Results Operations.\x94 This Standard provides single accounting model for long-lived assets disposed and significantly changes the criteria that would have met classify asset held-for-sale. Classification held-for-sale important distinction since such assets are not depreciated and are stated the lower fair value and carrying amount. This Standard also requires expected future operating losses from discontinued operations displayed the period( ) which the losses are incurred, rather than the measurement date presently required. The provisions this Standard are not expected have significant effect the Company\x92 financial position operating results. November , the EITF reached consensus Issue - , addressing the accounting cash consideration received customer from vendor, including vendor rebates and refunds. The consensus reached states that consideration received should presumed reduction the prices the vendor\x92 products services and should therefore shown reduction cost sales the income statement the customer. The presumption could overcome the vendor receives identifiable benefit exchange for the consideration the consideration represents reimbursement specific incremental identifiable cost incurred the customer selling the vendor\x92 product service. one these conditions met, the cash consideration should characterized reduction those costs the income statement the customer. The consensus reached also concludes that rebates refunds can reasonably estimated, such rebates refunds should recognized reduction the cost sales PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) based systematic and rational allocation the consideration received relative the transactions that mark the progress the customer toward earning the rebate refund. The provisions this consensus are applied prospectively and are consistent with the Company\x92 existing accounting policy. November , the EITF reached consensus Issue - , addressing how account for arrangements that involve the delivery performance multiple products, services, and rights use assets. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: ( ) the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; ( ) there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and ( ) delivery any undelivered item probable. Arrangement consideration should allocated among the separate units accounting based their relative fair values, with the amount allocated the delivered item being limited the amount that not contingent the delivery additional items meeting other specified performance conditions. The final consensus will applicable agreements entered into fiscal periods beginning after June , with early adoption permitted. The provisions this Consensus are not expected have significant effect the Company\x92 financial position operating results. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , \x93Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x97 Transition and Disclosure.\x94 This Statement amends SFAS . , \x93Stock-Based Compensation,\x94 provide alternative methods transition for voluntary change the fair value based method accounting for stock-based employee compensation. addition, this Statement amends the disclosure requirements SFAS . require prominent disclosures both annual and interim financial statements about the method accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect the method used reported results. The disclosure provisions this Standard are effective for fiscal years ending after December , and have been incorporated into these financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize, major security type, the Company\x92 cash and marketable securities ( thousands): December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , , \x97 , Cash and cash equivalents , , \x97 , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Asset-backed and agency securities , , \x97 , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value . Treasury notes and bonds , , ( ) , Equity securities , \x97 \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , December , Cost Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 ( , ) , Total cash and cash equivalents , \x97 ( , ) , Certificates deposit , \x97 ( ) , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , Asset-backed and agency securities , \x97 , . Treasury notes and bonds , \x97 , Equity securities , ( ) , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , The following table summarizes contractual maturities the Company\x92 cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( thousands): Amortized Estimated Cost Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through three years , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities , , $ , $ , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities for the years ended December , , , and respectively. The Company has pledged portion its marketable securities collateral for stand- letters credit that guarantee certain its contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges foreign exchange rate risk portion its % PEACS; and some its real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 and \x93Note \x97 Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Fixed Assets Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( thousands): December , Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements $ , $ , Technology infrastructure and other computer equipment , , Software purchased developed for internal use , , Equipment and other fixed assets acquired under capital leases , , , , Less accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Less accumulated amortization leased assets ( , ) ( , ) Fixed assets, net $ , $ , Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. Note \x97 Other Equity Investments Activity the Company\x92 equity-method and cost-method investments for the years ended December , and , follows ( thousands): Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Balance, December , $ , $ , $ , Investments \x97 common stock consideration , \x97 , Fair value equity securities received services-related transactions \x97 Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( ) ( ) ( ) Realized gains sales investments, net \x97 Non-cash gains (losses) for acquisitions investees third party , ( ) Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Unrealized gains available-for-sale investments, net \x97 Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Loss from change accounting principle \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( , ) , \x97 Balance, December , , , , Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Realized gains sales investments, net , , , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Unrealized losses available-for-sale investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( ) \x97 Balance, December , $ $ , $ , Effective January , , the Company\x92 adoption SFAS . resulted the recording loss totaling $ million report certain warrants fair value. Prior adoption, such warrants were carried cost. December , and , cost-method investments recorded \x93Other equity investments\x94 included $ million and $ million, respectively, investments recorded fair value and $ million and $ million, respectively, investments carried cost. Gross unrealized gains and losses were not significant December , and . December , and , the fair value the Company\x92 investments the common stock publicly held equity-method investees was $ million and $ million, respectively. Note \x97 Unearned Revenue Activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , $ , Cash received accounts receivable , Fair value equity securities received Amortization revenue ( , ) Contract termination ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , All amounts recorded accounts receivable, including amounts associated with unearned revenue, are legally due and contractually enforceable. December , accounts receivable, net associated with unearned revenue was $ million. During , the Company recognized previously unearned revenue associated with the termination its commercial agreement with Kozmo com, which was included \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the accompanying consolidated statements operations. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, amounts associated with the Kozmo com commercial agreement were previously recognized \x93Net sales\x94 the accompanying consolidated statements operations during any period. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Long-Term Debt and Other The Company\x92 long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( thousands): December , % Convertible Subordinated Notes $ , , $ , , % PEACS , , Senior Discount Notes , , Long-term restructuring liabilities , , Euro currency swap , , Capital lease obligations , , Other long-term debt , , , , , , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) Less current portion other long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) $ , , $ , , % PEACS February , , the Company completed offering million Euros % PEACS due . The % PEACS are convertible into the Company\x92 common stock conversion price Euros per share. The initial conversion price Euros per share was adjusted down due reset provisions the note. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated all the Company\x92 existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with the Company\x92 outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. Subject certain conditions, the % PEACS may redeemed the Company\x92 option after February , , whole part, the redemption price , Euros per note, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which the stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants the Company, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining its corporate existence and properties and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. The Company was compliance with these covenants December , . order hedge portion the risk foreign exchange fluctuations between the . Dollar and the Euro, the Company entered into cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, the Company agreed pay inception and receive upon maturity million Euros exchange for receiving inception and paying maturity $ million. addition, the Company agreed receive February each year million Euros for interest payments million Euros the % PEACS and, simultaneously, pay $ million. The agreement expires February , and cancelable, whole part, the Company\x92 option cost after February , the Company\x92 underlying PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) stock price (converted into Euros) greater than equal the minimum conversion price the % PEACS. The Company has designated the swap agreement cash flow hedge the foreign exchange rate risk portion the % PEACS principal and interest accordance with the provisions SFAS . . Each period, gains losses resulting from changes the fair value the swap contract are recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 and portion such gain loss immediately reclassified the statement operations, \x93Other gains (losses), net,\x94 offset the foreign currency loss gain attributable remeasurement the hedged portion the % PEACS. For the year ended December , , currency swap gain $ million was reclassified offset $ million currency loss the % PEACS. The terms the swap contract have been structured match the terms the hedged portion the % PEACS. net gains losses, resulting from hedge ineffectiveness, were recognized results operations during the year ended December , and . Effective January , , currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net.\x94 Prior January , , % PEACS\x92 principal million Euros was designated hedge equivalent amount Euro-denominated investments classified available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses the % PEACS were recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 the consolidated balance sheets hedging offsets currency gains and losses the Euro-denominated investments. the hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions SFAS . , commencing January , , the foreign currency change resulting from the portion the % PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities now being recorded \x93Other gains (losses), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. The change resulted gain $ million for the year ended December , , consisting $ million gain reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 and $ million gain attributable remeasurement the % PEACS during the period. The fair value the swap determined the present value net future cash payments and receipts, adjusted for the Company\x92 ability cancel the agreement and the likelihood such cancellation. The fair value takes into consideration current foreign exchange rates, market interest rates, the current market price the Company\x92 common stock and other variables. The fair value the swap obligation was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million, December , and December , , respectively. % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , the Company completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes due . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into the Company\x92 common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share, subject adjustment certain events. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year, and commenced August , . The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated all existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. any time after February , , least days\x92 notice the Company may redeem the notes, whole part, premium % over its principal balance, together with accrued interest. The redemption premium thereafter reduced % each February between and . Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require the Company redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which the stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants the Company, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining its corporate existence and properties, paying taxes and other claims timely manner and the provision information required under Rule 144A the Securities Act enable holders sell without registration. The Company was compliance with these covenants December , . Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and December , was $ million and $ million, respectively. Senior Discount Notes , the Company completed the offering approximately $ million % Senior Discount Notes due May , (\x93Original Senior Discount Notes\x94). Pursuant registration statement Form - September , the Company completed exchange offer % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93Exchange Notes\x94 \x93Senior Discount Notes\x94), which are registered under the Securities Act , amended, for all outstanding Original Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have identical terms all material respects the terms the Original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are referred throughout these notes consolidated financial statements interchangeably with the Original Senior Discount Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture governing the Original Senior Discount Notes (\x93Indenture\x94). The Original Senior Discount Notes were sold substantial discount from their original principal amount maturity $ million. Prior November , , cash interest payments are required; instead, interest will accrete during this period the aggregate principal amount maturity. From and after May , , the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest rate % per annum payable cash each May and November . The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable, the option the Company, whole part, any time after May , , the redemption prices set forth the Indenture, plus accrued interest, any, the date redemption. During , the Company repurchased $ million (principal amount) the Senior Discount Notes, representing accreted value $ million, resulting remaining outstanding principal amount $ million. The Company recorded immaterial loss extinguishment this debt. repurchases Senior Discount Notes occurred , . The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured indebtedness the Company ranking equally with the Company\x92 existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness and senior right payment all subordinated indebtedness the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are effectively subordinated all secured indebtedness and all existing and future liabilities the Company\x92 subsidiaries. The Indenture contains certain covenants that, among other things, limit the ability the Company and its \x93Restricted Subsidiaries\x94 ( defined the Indenture) incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make investments, create liens, engage transactions with stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage mergers and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject number important qualifications and exceptions. The Company was compliance with all covenants December , . Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the outstanding Senior Discount Notes was $ million and $ million December , and December , , respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Commitments and Contingencies Commitments The Company currently leases office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , and was $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively. The following are the Company\x92 contractual commitments associated with its operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing agreements ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Other commitments: Debt principal and other( ) , , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases , , , , , , , Marketing agreements , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) Principal and interest payments due under the Company\x92 % PEACS, excluding those payments with fixed exchange ratio under the currency swap hedge arrangement, will fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Long-term capital lease obligations $ Pledged Securities The Company has pledged portion its marketable securities collateral for stand- letters credit that guarantee certain its contractual obligations, majority which relates property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign exchange risk portion its % PEACS; and some its real estate lease agreements. The amount marketable securities the Company required pledge pursuant the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value the swap obligation. The change the total amount collateral pledged under these agreements follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Swap Real Estate Credit Agreement Leases Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged ( , ) ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Legal Proceedings April , , the Company received request from the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) staff for the voluntary production documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales the Company\x92 common stock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, February and , . The Company cooperating with the SEC staff\x92 continuing inquiry. number purported class action complaints were filed holders the Company\x92 equity and debt securities against the Company, its directors and certain its senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Securities Exchange Act (the \x93 Act\x94). October , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed consolidated amended complaint alleging that the Company, together with certain its officers and directors and certain third-parties, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through July , concerning the Company\x92 business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. The Company disputes the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intends vigorously defend itself these matters. August , , the Trustee for the Creditors\x92 Trust for Living com instituted adversary proceeding against subsidiary the Company the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District Texas. The plaintiff alleges that Living com\x92 creditors are entitled contractual recovery PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) approximately $ million fees that Living com had previously paid primarily issuing Living com stock the Company. The Company disputes the plaintiff\x92 allegations and intends vigorously defend itself this matter. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against the Company and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest and declaratory relief. The Company disputes the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intends vigorously defend itself this matter. Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect the Company\x92 business, future results operations, financial position cash flows particular period. From time time, the Company subject other legal proceedings and claims the ordinary course business, including claims alleged infringement trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently not aware any such legal proceedings claims that believes will have, individually the aggregate, material adverse effect its business, financial condition, operating results. Inventory Suppliers During , the Company purchased over % all inventory purchases from single vendor, Ingram Book Group. other vendors account for over %. The Company does not have long-term contracts arrangements with most its vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms the extension credit limits. Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Preferred Stock The Company has authorized , , shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock shares were outstanding during , . Basis Adjustments \x97 Public Offerings Investees Three the Company\x92 equity-method investees, HomeGrocer com, Inc., Pets com, Inc. and drugstore com, inc., completed public offerings their common stock during . result those public offerings, the Company\x92 ownership percentage each investee was diluted, creating \x93implied sale\x94 portion its investments. accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin . , \x93Accounting for Sales Stock Subsidiary,\x94 the Company recorded unrealized gains, net unrealized losses, additional paid- capital totaling $ million . The unrealized gains, net, represent the difference between the Company\x92 carrying basis and the fair value the portion each PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) investment deemed have been sold the investees. Details these offerings and the effect the Company\x92 ownership and cost basis the investees are follows: Ownership Shares Price Offering Basis Issued per Amount Prior After Adjustment Offering ( thousands) Share ( thousands) Offering Offering ( thousands) Homegrocer com, Inc. March initial public offering , $ $ , % % $ , Pets com, Inc. February initial public offering , , % % , drugstore com, inc. March secondary public offering , , % % , drugstore com, inc. July private public offering , , % % ( ) Total $ , Stock Award Plans The Company\x92 stock award plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan and the Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under these plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Incentive Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan, which maximum , , shares that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Incentive Plan. connection with certain acquisitions , the Company assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally issued under the acquired companies\x92 stock option plans. The Company\x92 stock award plans well the assumed stock award plans are hereby collectively referred the \x93Plans.\x94 , the Company transitioned using restricted stock units, awarded under the Stock Incentive Plan, its primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Employees vest restricted stock unit awards ratably over the corresponding service term, generally three six years. relates stock option awards, the Company\x92 Board Directors generally sets exercise price not less than the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock the date grant. Each outstanding option granted prior December , has term five years from the date vesting. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under the Company\x92 plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally became exercisable immediately but are subject restriction transfer that vests over period time. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Certain outstanding options that were granted during and vest and become exercisable the rate % after year one and % after year two. During the first quarter , the Company offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options employees meeting certain eligibility criteria. Options granted pursuant this stock option exchange vest and become exercisable the rate % after months from the date grant and % per month for the succeeding months. Certain options granted the third quarter generally vest and become exercisable follows: ( ) the option vests quarterly equal installments over , month period commencing dates ranging from grant date October , , ( ) the option vests % % date approximately months from date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period (iii) the option vests % % dates approximately months and months PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) from the date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the Company the exercise price upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the vesting schedule. December , , approximately million shares restricted common stock, which includes restricted shares issued connection with acquisitions well shares issued certain key employees and , were subject repurchase forfeiture. Stock Award Activity December , , outstanding stock awards totaled million, which includes million stock options and million restricted stock units. The following table summarizes the Company\x92 stock option activity: Number Shares Weighted Average ( thousands) Exercise Price Balance December , , $ Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Weighted Weighted Number Average Number Average Range Awards Remaining Exercise Awards Exercise Exercise Prices ( thousands) Life (yrs) Price ( thousands) Price $ - $ , $ , $ - , , - , , - , - , , - , - , PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Weighted Weighted Number Average Number Average Range Awards Remaining Exercise Awards Exercise Exercise Prices ( thousands) Life (yrs) Price ( thousands) Price - , , - , , - , , Deferred Stock-Based Compensation The Company recorded aggregate deferred stock-based compensation $ million and $ million and respectively. similar amounts were recorded . Deferred stock-based compensation was recorded connection with the Company\x92 restricted common stock issued key employees for future services. The amounts recorded represent the fair value the Company\x92 common stock issued the date grant. Such value recognized expense ratably over the corresponding service period, which generally five years. Additionally, , and , the Company recorded adjustments reduce previously recorded deferred stock-based compensation $ million, $ million and $ million, respectively, representing the remaining unvested portion restricted stock awards upon termination certain key employees prior vesting. Comprehensive Income (Loss) The changes the components comprehensive loss were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign-currency translations gains (losses), net , ( , ) ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during year , ( , ) ( , ) Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net loss ( , ) , , Net unrealized gains (losses) available-for-sale securities , , ( ) Net unrealized gains (losses) Euro-based currency swap: Unrealized gains (losses) remeasurement fair value , ( , ) \x97 Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net loss ( , ) , \x97 Net unrealized gains (losses) Euro-based currency swap , ( , ) \x97 Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 ( , ) \x97 Cumulative effect accounting change adopt SFAS . . \x97 ( , ) \x97 Other comprehensive income (loss) , ( , ) ( ) Comprehensive loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) The Company not able predict future gains losses due the remeasurement the hedged portion the % PEACS and equivalent reclassifications losses gains the swap contract from accumulated other comprehensive loss earnings. Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock awards, including restricted stock units , Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes , Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS , Total , Note \x97 Earnings (Loss) Per Share The following represents the calculations for net loss per share ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Loss before change accounting principle $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) \x97 Net loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Weighted average common shares issued subject restrictions ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share , , , Basic and diluted loss per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( ) \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) All the Company\x92 stock awards (see \x93Note \x97 Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit)\x94) are excluded from diluted loss per share since their effect antidilutive. Note \x97 Restructuring-Related and Other Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. the first quarter , the Company announced and began implementation its operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline its organizational structure, consolidate certain its fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion its technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation its Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure its McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation its Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure its customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) large portion its technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however, the Company may adjust its restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. During , the Company revised its estimates ongoing net lease obligations for its facilities Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due weakness these real estate markets; reached termination agreement with the landlord its leased fulfillment center facility McDonough, Georgia; and permanently closed its fulfillment center Seattle, Washington. Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance Balance December , Subsequent December , Due Within Due After Accruals, Net Payments Months( ) Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Termination benefits \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) , , , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 respectively, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , the Company had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Restructuring-related and other expenses primarily relate impairments goodwill and other intangibles recorded connection with certain the Company\x92 business acquisitions. Note \x97 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Note \x97 Other Gains (Losses), Net Other gains (losses), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gains (losses) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ , $ \x97 Gains (losses) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , ( , ) \x97 Other-than-temporary impairment losses equity investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Gains sales equity investments, net , \x97 \x97 Gains from terminations commercial contracts \x97 , , Net gains from acquisition investments third parties \x97 , Warrant remeasurements and other ( ) ( , ) \x97 $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Note \x97 Income Taxes The Company has provided for current and deferred . federal, state and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where subsidiaries the Company produce taxable income. December , , the Company has recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. The Company has provided valuation allowance for the PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) remainder its deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and , respectively. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components the Company\x92 net deferred tax assets, which are included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets,\x94 are follows ( thousands): December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses $ , $ , Assets held for investment , , Revenue items , , Expense items , , Total gross deferred tax assets , , , , Less valuation allowance ( , , ) ( , , ) Net deferred tax assets , , Deferred tax liabilities \x97 Expense items ( ) \x97 Net deferred tax asset $ , $ , December , , the Company had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begins expire . Approximately $ billion the Company\x92 net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Note \x97 Employee Benefit Plan The Company has ( ) savings plan covering substantially all its employees. Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches employees\x92 contributions the discretion the Company\x92 Board Directors. Through December , , the Company has not matched employee contributions the ( ) savings plan; however has announced its intentions make employer matching contributions using its common stock. Note \x97 Segment Information The Company presents information its chief operating decision maker four segments: North America Books, Music, and DVD/ Video (\x93BMVD\x94); North America Electronics, Tools, and Kitchen (\x93ETK\x94); International; and Services. Accordingly, the Company discloses its segment financial information along these lines. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) BMVD Segment The BMVD segment includes retail sales from www amazon com and www amazon books, music and DVD/ video products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace, amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through the Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering these products through the Syndicated Stores program. ETK Segment The ETK segment includes www amazon com retail sales electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, well our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions from sales these products, new, used collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales these products other businesses through the Merchants@ program, such with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, any, through the Syndicated Stores program. International Segment The International segment includes all retail sales the following internationally-focused Web sites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon . These international sites share common Amazon com experience, but are localized terms language, products, customer service and fulfillment. the extent available these sites, this segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales products through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering products through the Syndicated Stores program, such www waterstones and www virginmega , and amounts earned from sales products other businesses through the Merchants@ program. The International segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Operating results for the International segment are affected movements foreign exchange rates. During , International segment revenues improved $ million, and operating results improved $ million comparison the prior year due changes foreign exchange rates. Services Segment The Services segment consists commissions, fees and other amounts earned from the services business, including the Merchant com program (such www target com ), and the extent full product categories are not also offered the Company through its online retail stores, the Merchants@ program, such the apparel store, Toysrus com and Babiesrus com stores, and portions the Target store www amazon com, well the commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Included Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues $ million, $ million and $ million for , and , respectively. The Company measures the results operations its reportable segments using pro forma measure. Pro forma results from operations, which exclude stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges, are not conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Stock-based compensation, amortization goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other costs are not allocated segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated segment results. There are internal transactions between the Company\x92 reporting segments. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net loss follows ( thousands): Year Ended : North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) , ( ) , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle Net loss $ ( , ) Year Ended : North America Books. Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) , ( , ) , ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) Net loss $ ( , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Year Ended : North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and DVD Video Kitchen Total International Services Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , , , , Pro forma income (loss) from operations , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Net loss $ ( , , ) Net sales customers outside the . represented approximately %, % and % net sales for , and , respectively. Other than sales into the United Kingdom, which represents approximately % total net sales , individual foreign country, geographical area customer accounted for more than % net sales any the periods presented. Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( thousands): North America Books, Music Electronics, and Tools and Year Ended December , DVD Video Kitchen Total Services International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , , , , , , , December , and , fixed assets, net totaled $ million and $ million the United States, respectively, and $ million and $ million other countries, respectively. PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Note \x97 Quarterly Results (Unaudited) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , and . The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation income (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) PAGEBREAK AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS \x97 (Continued) Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Basic and diluted income (loss) per share( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic income (loss) per share , , , , Shares used computation diluted income (loss) per share , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Net loss ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted loss per share( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation basic and diluted loss per share , , , , ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. PAGEBREAK link2 "Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure" Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. link1 "PART III" PART III link2 "Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant" Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business \x97 Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating compliance with Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act set forth the Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Executive Compensation" Item . Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting stockholders and incorporated herein reference. link2 "Item . Controls and Procedures" Item . Controls and Procedures Within days prior the date this report, carried out evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures. Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. should noted that the design any system controls based part upon certain assumptions, and there can assurance that any design will succeed achieving its stated goals. addition, reviewed our internal controls, and there have been significant changes our internal controls other factors that could significantly affect those controls subsequent the date their last evaluation. PAGEBREAK link1 "PART " PART link2 "Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - " Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description . Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). . Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated Reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . Form % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). . \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). PAGEBREAK Exhibit Number Description . \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). . \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Jeff Wilke, dated September , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Jeff Wilke, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , . . \x86 Offer Letter Employment Mark Peek, dated February , . . \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Mark Peek, dated April , . . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors. . \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). . Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. . Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). . List Significant Subsidiaries. . Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., Pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) Reports Form - : November , the Company filed Form - under Item announcing that Thomas . Ryder, Chairman and CEO the Reader\x92 Digest Association, was elected the Amazon com Board Directors. PAGEBREAK link1 "SIGNATURES" ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}