{'item 1. ': "Business Company Background Apple Computer, Inc. (\x93Apple\x94 the \x93Company\x94) was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services, including the online sale third-party audio and video products. The Company\x92 products and services include the Macintosh® line desktop and portable computers, the Mac ® operating system, the iPod® line portable digital music players, the iTunes Store®, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, variety other service and support offerings, and the Xserve® and Xserve RAID server and storage products. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh and iPod compatible products including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. The Company\x92 fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented this Form - based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best personal computing and portable digital music experience students, educators, creative professionals, businesses, government agencies, and consumers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, services, and Internet offerings. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating system, hardware, application software, and services provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company believes continual investment research and development critical facilitate innovation new and improved products and technologies. Besides updates its existing line personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions, the Company continues capitalize the convergence digital consumer electronics and the personal computer creating and refining innovations like the iPod and iTunes Store. The Company\x92 strategy also includes expanding its distribution network effectively reach more its targeted customers and provide them with high-quality sales and after-sales support experience. Digital Lifestyle The Company believes that for both professionals and consumers the personal computer has become the center evolving digital lifestyle integrating and enhancing the utility advanced digital devices such the Company\x92 iPods, digital video and still cameras, televisions, and DVD players, cellular phones, personal digital assistants, and other consumer electronic devices. The attributes the personal computer that enable this functionality include high-quality user interface, easy access relatively inexpensive data storage, the ability run complex applications, and the ability connect easily wide variety other digital devices and the Internet. The Company the only participant the personal computer industry that controls the design and development the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated applications. This, along with its products\x92 original industrial designs, intuitive ease- -use, built- graphics, multimedia and networking capabilities, uniquely positions the Company offer innovative integrated digital lifestyle solutions. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Expanded Distribution The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons that can convey the value the Company\x92 products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. The Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its retail and online stores. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales, including the Apple Sales Consultant Program, which places Apple employees and contractors selected third-party reseller locations. The Company believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers efficient way demonstrate the advantages its Macintosh computer and other products over those its competitors. The Company has significantly increased the points distribution for the iPod product family order make its products available locations where its customers shop. the end fiscal , the Company had opened total retail stores, including stores the . and total stores Canada, Japan, and the . The Company opened additional stores October and November . The Company has typically located its stores high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. One the goals the retail initiative bring new customers the Company and expand its installed base through sales computer users who currently not own Macintosh computer and first time personal computer buyers. operating its own stores and building them desirable high-traffic locations, the Company able better control the customer retail experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing personal computers and related products. that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes order accommodate market demands. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice and certain hardware support services. The stores offer wide selection third-party hardware, software, and various other computing products and supplies selected complement the Company\x92 own products. Additionally, the stores provide forum which the Company able offer specialized service and personalized training. Education Throughout its history, the Company has focused the use technology education and has been committed delivering tools help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement, especially when used support collaboration, information access, and the expression and representation student thought and ideas. The Company creates solutions that enable new modes curriculum delivery, better ways conducting research, and opportunities for professional development faculty, students, and staff. The Company has designed range products and services meet the needs education customers. These products and services include the iMac\x99 and the MacBook®, video creation and editing solutions, wireless networking, professional development solutions, and one- -one ( : ) learning solutions. : learning solution typically consist portable computer for every student and teacher along with the installation wireless network . Creative Professionals Creative professionals constitute one the Company\x92 most important markets for both hardware and software products. This market also important many third-party developers who provide Macintosh-compatible hardware and software solutions. Creative customers utilize the Company\x92 products for variety activities including digital video and film production and editing; digital video and film special effects, compositing and titling; digital still photography and workflow management; graphic design, publishing, and print production; music creation and production; audio production and sound design; and web design, development, and administration. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' The Company designs its high-end hardware solutions, including servers, desktops, and portable Macintosh systems, incorporate the power, expandability, and features desired creative professionals. The Company\x92 operating system, Mac , incorporates powerful graphics and audio technologies and features developer tools optimize system and application performance when running creative solutions provided the Company third-party developers. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment currently operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\x92 subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Segment Operating Performance,\x94 and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Hardware Products The Company offers range personal computing products including desktop and notebook computers, server and storage products, related devices and peripherals, and various third-party hardware products. The Company\x92 Macintosh® systems, excluding servers and storage systems, features the Company\x92 Mac ® Version Tiger\x99 and iLife® suite software for digital photography, music, movies, and music and website creation. Macintosh® Computers June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its computers. During , the Company introduced new Intel-based models the MacBook\x99 Pro, MacBook, Mac® Pro, iMac®, and Mac mini computers. All Intel-based Macintosh systems feature fully native version Mac Version Tiger, including the Rosetta\x99 translation technology, which allows most PowerPC-based Macintosh applications run Intel-based Macintosh computers. The Company\x92 transition Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed August , and its transition for Xserve® was completed November . There are potential risks and uncertainties associated with the transition Intel microprocessors, which are further discussed Item this - under the heading \x93Risk Factors.\x94 MacBook\x99 Pro The MacBook Pro family notebook computers designed for professionals and advanced consumer users. Introduced January , the MacBook Pro includes either -inch -inch widescreen display, built- iSight video camera, Front Row with the Apple Remote, and the MagSafe\x99 power adapter. Current MacBook Pro models include Intel Core Duo processors 16GHz 33GHz, ATI Mobility Radeon X1600 graphics, 667MHz DDR2 main memory, Serial ATA hard drive, and slot-loading double-layer SuperDrive\x99. Every MacBook Pro features -inch thin aluminum enclosure and includes AirPort Extreme wireless networking, Bluetooth +EDR, Gigabit Ethernet, two three USB ports, FireWire and ports, combination analog and optical digital audio input and output ports, full-sized DVI video-out port, ExpressCard slot, scrolling trackpad, and backlit keyboard. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' MacBook\x99 The MacBook designed for consumer and education users. Introduced May , the MacBook includes -inch widescreen display, built- iSight video camera, Front Row with the Apple Remote, and the MagSafe magnetic power adapter. Current MacBook models include Intel Core Duo processors 83GHz and 0GHz, Intel integrated GMA graphics, 667MHz DDR2 main memory, Serial ATA hard drive, and slot-loading Combo optical drive double-layer SuperDrive. Available either black white, every MacBook includes built- AirPort Extreme wireless networking, Bluetooth +EDR, Gigabit Ethernet, two USB ports, one FireWire port, combination analog and optical digital audio input and output ports, mini-DVI video output port, and scrolling trackpad. Mac® Pro The Mac Pro desktop computer targeted business and professional users and designed meet the performance, expansion, and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. Introduced August , the Mac Pro features two Intel Xeon dual-core processors running 0GHz, each with 4MB shared Level cache and independent 33GHz front-side buses, 667MHz fully buffered memory, and -bit wide memory architecture. The Mac Pro also features direct attach storage solution for snap- installation four 750GB Serial ATA hard drives for total 3TB internal storage and support for two optical drives simultaneously read and write CDs and DVDs. Every Mac Pro includes three full-length PCI Express expansion slots and one double-wide PCI Express graphics slot support double-wide graphics cards. The Mac Pro also includes dual Gigabit Ethernet ports, optical digital input and output ports, analog audio input and output ports, and multiple FireWire , FireWire and USB ports. iMac® The iMac desktop computer targeted consumer and education markets. Introduced January and updated September , the Intel-based iMac currently available with integrated -inch widescreen LCD display, 512MB 1GB 667MHz DDR2 memory expandable 2GB 3GB, 83GHz 0GHz Intel Core Duo processor, Intel integrated GMA ATI Radeon X1600 graphics, and 160GB Serial ATA hard drive. The iMac also available with -inch -inch widescreen LCD display, 1GB 667MHz memory expandable 3GB, 16GHz processor, ATI Radeon X1600 NVIDIA GeForce graphics, and 250GB Serial ATA hard drive. All models include built- iSight video camera, mini-DVI video-out port, multiple USB and FireWire ports, built- Gigabit Ethernet, and AirPort Extreme 11g wireless networking. Most models also include built- Bluetooth +EDR, the Apple Remote, and slot-loading double-layer SuperDrive. Mac® mini February , the Company introduced the Intel-based Mac mini that includes Front Row with the Apple Remote. The new Mac mini offers 512MB 667MHz memory expandable 2GB and either 66GHz 83GHz Intel Core Duo processor. Every Mac mini now includes built- Gigabit Ethernet, AirPort Extreme 11g wireless networking, Bluetooth +EDR, and total four USB ports. Mac mini includes full-size DVI interface and VGA-out adapter connect variety displays, including televisions, and features both analog and digital audio outputs. Xserve® and Xserve RAID Storage System Xserve rack-mount server product designed for simple setup and remote management intensive input output ( ) applications such digital video, high-resolution digital imagery, and large databases. November , the Company began shipping Xserve, -bit server featuring Mac ® Server two Intel Xeon dual-core processors running 0GHz, 66GHz, 0GHz, with support for 32GB memory. Xserve includes PCI Express and independent 33GHz front side buses with 4MB shared Level memory cache. Two eight-lane PCI Express expansion slots provide 2GB SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' throughput each support fibre channel, networking, and graphics cards. Xserve supports 25TB hot-plug storage. The Company\x92 Xserve RAID storage system delivers 7TB storage capacity and also expanded support for heterogeneous environments. The dual independent RAID controllers with 512MB cache per controller offer sustained throughput over Mbps. Music Products and Services The Company offers its iPod® line portable digital music players and related accessories Macintosh and Windows users. The Company also provides online service distribute third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows, movies, and iPod games through its iTunes Store. addition the Company\x92 own iPod accessories, thousands third-party iPod compatible products are available, including portable and desktop speaker systems, headphones, car radio solutions, voice recorders, cables and docks, power supplies and chargers, and carrying cases and armbands. iPod® The iPod the Company\x92 hard-drive based portable digital music player and was updated September . The iPod available 30GB model capable holding , songs, , photos, hours video, and 80GB model capable holding , songs, , photos, hours video. The iPod features hours battery life and includes -inch color screen that can display album artwork, photos, and video content including music videos, video and audio podcasts, short films, television shows, movies, and games. Other key features the iPod include calendar , contact utility, and data storage capability. The iPod features the Company\x92 patent-pending Click Wheel, touch-sensitive wheel with five push buttons for one-handed navigation. The iPod also includes the Company\x92 patent-pending Auto-Sync technology that automatically synchronizes and updates the iPod\x92 digital music and other content whenever connected Macintosh Windows computer via USB. All iPods work with the Company\x92 iTunes digital music management software (\x93iTunes software\x94) available for both Macintosh and Windows-based computers. iPod® nano September , the Company introduced the second-generation version its flash-memory-based iPod nano featuring aluminum body and hours battery life. The second-generation iPod nano includes the Click Wheel, smaller and lighter design, brighter color screen than its predecessor, and new Search and Quick Scroll features that make easier find content. The iPod nano available 2GB, 4GB and 8GB configurations and variety colors. iPod® shuffle September , the Company introduced new version its flash-memory-based iPod shuffle. The new iPod shuffle weighs half ounce and features all-new aluminum design and built- clip. The new iPod shuffle contains one gigabyte flash memory capable holding songs and provides hours battery life. The iPod shuffle based the Company\x92 shuffle feature that allows users listen their music random order. iPod shuffle works with iTunes and its patent-pending AutoFill option that automatically selects songs fill the iPod shuffle from user\x92 iTunes library. iTunes® Store The Company\x92 iTunes Store, available for both Macintosh and Windows-based computers, service that allows customers find, purchase, and download third-party digital music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows and movies, and iPod games. The iTunes Store also features the Podcast Directory that allows customers search for and download audio programs their computers and automatically receive new episodes over the Internet. Customers can search the contents the store catalog locate works title, artist, album, browse the entire contents the store genre and SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' artist. Originally introduced the . April , the iTunes Store now serves customers countries. The iTunes Store fully integrated with iTunes software allowing customers preview, purchase, download, organize, share, and transfer digital content iPod using single software application. Further discussion the iTunes software may found below under the heading \x93Software Products and Computer Technologies.\x94 The iTunes Store offers customers broad range personal rights the third-party content they have purchased. Content purchased through the store may also used certain applications such iPhoto®, iMovie®, and iDVD®. Additional features the iTunes Store include gift certificates that can sent via -mail; prepaid music cards; \x93allowance\x94 feature that enables users automatically deposit funds into iTunes Store account every month; online gift options that let customers give specific content anyone with email address; parental controls; and album reviews. Peripheral Products The Company sells variety Apple-branded and third-party computer hardware peripheral products directly end-users through its retail and online stores, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various other computing products and supplies. Displays The Company manufactures family widescreen flat panel displays including the -inch Apple Cinema Display\x99, widescreen active-matrix LCD with - - pixel resolution, the -inch Apple Cinema Display with - - pixel resolution and the -inch Apple Cinema Display® with - - pixel resolution. These displays feature built- dual FireWire and dual USB ports and use the industry standard DVI interface for pure digital connection with the Company\x92 latest Mac Pro, MacBook Pro, and MacBook systems. The Cinema Displays feature aluminum design with thin bezel, suspended aluminum stand that allows viewing angle adjustment. Software Products and Computer Technologies The Company offers range software products for education, creative, consumer, and business customers, including Mac , the Company\x92 proprietary operating system software for the Macintosh; server software and related solutions; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. Operating System Software Mac built open-source UNIX-based foundation. The most recent version, Mac Tiger, the fifth major release Mac . Tiger incorporates innovations including Spotlight\x99, desktop search technology that lets users find items stored their Macintosh computers, including documents, emails, contacts, and images; and Dashboard, way instantly access information such weather forecasts and stock quotes, using new class mini-applications called widgets. Mac Server version the server version the Mac operating system. Server Software and Server Solutions April , the Company introduced Apple Remote Desktop , the Company\x92 third generation desktop management application. Apple Remote Desktop Universal application, meaning that runs natively both Intel and PowerPC-based Macintosh computers (Universal) for asset management and remote assistance that enables Spotlight searches across multiple Tiger systems and includes over Automator actions for automating repetitive system administration tasks, Dashboard Widget that provides observation remote systems, and AutoInstall for installing software automatically mobile systems when they return online. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Xsan®, the Company\x92 enterprise-class Storage Area Network (\x93SAN\x94) file system, -bit cluster file system for Mac that enables organizations consolidate storage resources and provide multiple computers with concurrent file-level read write access shared volumes over Fibre Channel. Advanced features such metadata controller failover and Fibre Channel multipathing ensure high availability; file-level locking allows multiple systems read and write concurrently the same volume which ideal for complex workflows; bandwidth reservation provides for effective ingestion bandwidth-intensive data streams, such high resolution video; and flexible volume management results more efficient use storage resources. Xsan can used heterogeneous environments that include Windows, UNIX, and Linux server operating system platforms. Professional Application Software March , the Company introduced Final Cut Studio ® , the Company\x92 High Definition (\x93 \x94) video production suite. Final Cut Studio features Final Cut Pro® , Soundtrack® Pro, Motion , and DVD Studio Pro® . All these applications are Universal. Final Cut Pro® , the latest version the Company\x92 video editing software, includes editing tools that work natively with most formats, from Digital Video (\x93 \x94) and High Definition Video (\x93HDV\x94) fully uncompressed . With real-time multi-stream effects architecture, multicam editing tools, and advanced color correction, Final Cut Pro enables users view and cut from multiple sources real time, group sources together into multi-clips, then add subtract cameras any time. DVD Studio Pro® the latest version the Company\x92 professional DVD authoring application. With DVD Studio Pro users can author Standard Definition (\x93 \x94) DVDs graphic interactive environment. DVD Studio Pro includes Compressor , full-featured video and audio compression application. Compressor gives users control over encoding, including the ability encode several clips one batch operation wide variety formats including . Motion real-time motion graphics software application that enables Final Cut Pro editors add motion graphics their projects. Motion features interactive animation text and graphics for DVD motion menus, video film real time, and quick output rendering built- GPU acceleration -bit, -bit, -bit float film quality. With Motion \x92 design tool, Replicator, users can automatically generate and animate multiple copies graphic, shape, movie. Soundtrack® Pro audio editing and sound design application that gives audio and video professionals way edit, mix, and repair audio. Soundtrack Pro features waveform editor with flexible Action Layers that allow users -order, bypass, change any edit, effect, process. Find-and-Fix features identify and repair common audio problems such background noise, pops, clicks, and hum. integrated multitrack mixer allows editors apply common effects multiple tracks and group common tracks. Soundtrack Pro also features over professional plug-ins for enhancing sounds, and over , music and sound effect loops. February , the Company introduced Logic® Pro , Universal version the Company\x92 music creation and audio production software. Logic Pro used musicians around the world and professionals music production and film scoring. combines digital music composition, notation, and audio production facilities one comprehensive product and includes software instruments such Sculpture®, component-modeling based synthesizer; UltraBeat®, drum synthesizer with built- step sequencer; and digital signal processing (DSP) plug-ins including Guitar Amp Pro, full-featured guitar amplifier simulator. Along with workflow enhancements, mastering plug-ins, and support for Apple Loops, Logic Pro adds distributed audio processing, technology that allows professionals utilize multiple Macintosh systems expand available DSP power via Ethernet network. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Consumer, Education, and Business Oriented Application Software iLife® \x91 January , the Company introduced iLife \x91 , upgrade its consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite, which features iWeb\x99, iPhoto® , iMovie® , iDVD® , GarageBand\x99 , and iTunes®. All these applications are Universal. iWeb\x99 new application the iLife \x91 suite. iWeb allows users create online photo albums, blogs, and podcasts and customize websites using editing tools. iPhoto® the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital photo software application. iPhoto adds new photo management and editing features, supports , photos, and introduces Photocasting\x99. Photocasting allows Mac users share and automatically update photo albums over the Internet with anyone who uses Macintosh Windows-based computer. iMovie® the Company\x92 consumer-oriented digital video editing software application. iMovie includes new real-time effects that take advantage Core Video technology, which uses the computer\x92 video card\x92 graphics processing unit deliver hardware acceleration quickly preview video effects. iMovie also provides solution make video podcasts, which can published with iWeb, and includes audio enhancement tools and sound effects. iDVD® the Company\x92 consumer-oriented software application that enables users turn iMovie files, QuickTime® files, and digital pictures into DVDs that can played most consumer DVD players. iDVD® allows users take content shot with HDV and widescreen cameras and author custom DVDs with widescreen menus, movies, and high resolution slideshows. iDVD features new Apple-designed menu themes both widescreen ( : ) and standard ( : ) formats. GarageBand\x99 the Company\x92 consumer-oriented music creation software application that allows users play, record and create music using simple interface. With GarageBand, recorded performances, digital audio and looping tracks can arranged and edited create songs. GarageBand allows users record, produce, and publish through iWeb their own podcasts, including artwork, sound effects, and music jingles. iLife \x91 also includes iTunes, the Company\x92 digital music jukebox software application that allows users purchase variety digital content available through the Company\x92 iTunes Store. iTunes organizes content using searching, browsing, and playlists, and also includes features such iMix playlist sharing and provides integration with the complete family iPods. September , the Company introduced iTunes , the latest version its iTunes software. iTunes delivers new features such album and Cover Flow views music, television shows, and movies, enabling users quickly find titles their library well casually browse through titles they already own. iWork\x99 \x91 January , the Company introduced iWork \x91 , new Universal version the Company\x92 suite productivity software designed help users create, present, and publish documents and presentations. iWork \x91 includes Pages® and Keynote® . Pages® gives users the tools create letters, newsletters, reports, brochures and resumes with advanced typography, multiple columns, footnotes, tables content and styles. Pages features mail merge with Mac Address Book, which allows users personalize documents dragging and dropping individual contacts into documents using templates with predefined fields. Pages also features new templates for newsletters, flyers, posters, school reports, scrapbooks, brochures, business proposals, and invoices. Pages allows users insert tables that have basic calculation functionality within any document and users can export their Pages document other formats. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Keynote® the Company\x92 presentation software that gives users the ability create presentations, portfolios, interactive slideshows, and storyboards. Keynote offers additional ways create presentations and interactive slideshows. features new cinematic transitions including vertical and horizontal blinds, revolving door, and swoosh. new view mode, Light Table, allows users view entire presentation and reorganize slides using drag and drop. Final Cut® Express enables users capture, edit, and output and HDV over single FireWire cable, and supports Digital Cinema Desktop with multiple displays. May , the Company introduced Universal version Final Cut Express . Features introduced this version include Dynamic for real-time playback multi-stream effects, Soundtrack with suite audio production tools, and LiveType with animated text and titles. March , the Company introduced Logic® Express , Universal version the Company\x92 streamlined version Logic Pro that provides basic set professional tools compose and produce music for students, educators, and advanced hobbyists. Its high-resolution audio -bit 96kHz, the adaptive self-configuring track mixer, and -bit floating-point math provides professional sound quality. Logic Express comes with support for projects from GarageBand, offering users smooth migration path high-end audio production. FileMaker, Inc., wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes desktop-based database management application software for both Macintosh and Windows-based computers. The FileMaker ® Pro database software and related products offer relational databases and desktop- -web publishing capabilities. July , the Company introduced FileMaker Pro , Universal version its database management application. New features FileMaker Pro include FileMaker Web Viewer, which allows for live web browser put into database. Internet Software and Services The Company focused delivering seamless integration with and access the Internet throughout the Company\x92 products and services. The Company\x92 Internet solutions adhere many industry standards provide optimized user experience through interoperability. Safari \x99 Safari, the Company\x92 Mac compatible web browser, uses the advanced interface technologies underlying Mac and includes built- Google search; SnapBack\x99 instantly return search results; way name, organize and present bookmarks; tabbed browsing; and automatic \x93pop- \x94 blocking. QuickTime ® QuickTime, the Company\x92 multimedia software for Macintosh Windows-based computers, features streaming live and stored video and audio over the Internet and playback high-quality audio and video computers. QuickTime features encoding and can automatically determine user\x92 connection speed ensure they are getting the highest-quality content stream possible. QuickTime also delivers multi-channel audio and supports audio formats, including AIFF, WAV, MOV, MP4 (AAC only), CAF, and AAC ADTS. The Company offers several other QuickTime products. QuickTime Pro, suite software tools, allows creation and editing Internet-ready audio and video files. QuickTime Pro allows users create video, capture audio and video, create multi-channel audio, and export multiple files while playing back editing video. .Mac\x99 The Company\x92 Mac offering suite Internet services that for annual fee provides Macintosh users with powerful set Internet tools Mac services include: HomePage, for personal web sites; iDisk, SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' virtual hard drive accessible anywhere with Internet access;.Mac Sync, which keeps Safari bookmarks, iCal® calendars, Address Book information, Keychain® (passwords), and Mac Mail preferences - -date across multiple Macintosh computers and available via web browser when users are away from their Mac;.Mac Mail, -free email service; and Learning Center, featuring tutorials for certain software applications. The current version Mac includes Mac Groups, service that helps members communicate, coordinate schedules, and stay sync with private groups friends colleagues; updated version Mac Backup software that allows members archive the content their iLife Home folder; and combined iDisk and email storage 1GB for individuals and 2GB for families. Wireless Connectivity and Networking AirPort Extreme® AirPort Extreme the Company\x92 - wireless networking technology. AirPort Extreme based the 11g standard, which supports speeds Mbps, and fully compatible with most - devices that use the 11b standard. AirPort Extreme Base Stations can serve Macintosh and Windows users simultaneously, provide wireless bridging extend the range beyond just one base station, and support USB printer sharing allow multiple users wirelessly share USB printers connected directly the base station. AirPort Extreme client technology built into most Macintosh models, and available option for all. AirPort® Express\x99 AirPort Express the first 11g mobile base station that can plugged directly into the wall for wireless Internet connections and USB printing. Airport Express also features analog and digital audio outputs that can connected stereo and AirTunes\x99 music networking software that works with iTunes, giving users way wirelessly stream iTunes music from their Macintosh Windows-based computer any room the house. AirPort Express features single piece design weighing ounces. Other Connectivity and Networking Solutions Mac includes capabilities for Bluetooth technology. Bluetooth industry standard for wirelessly connecting computers and peripherals that supports transmission data Mbps within range approximately feet. Bluetooth technology for Mac lets customers wirelessly share files between Macintosh systems, synchronize and share contact information with Palm- based PDAs, and access the Internet through Bluetooth-enabled cell phones. Bluetooth built into most Macintosh models. Bonjour®, the Company\x92 zero configuration networking technology, based open Internet Engineering Task Force (\x93IETF\x94) Standard Protocols such , ARP, and DNS and built into Mac . This technology uses industry standard networking protocols and zero configuration technology including Ethernet -based wireless networks like the Company\x92 AirPort products. The source code for this technology also includes software support UNIX, Linux, and Windows-based systems and devices. The Company developed FireWire, high-speed serial technology for connecting digital devices such digital camcorders and cameras desktop and portable computers. FireWire has high data-transfer speed and \x93hot plug-and-play\x94 capability and currently integrated all Macintosh systems. Product Support and Services AppleCare ® offers range support options for the Company\x92 customers. These options include assistance that built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, and the AppleCare Protection Plan. The AppleCare Protection Plan fee-based service that typically includes three years phone support and hardware repairs, dedicated web-based support resources, and user diagnostic tools. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Markets and Distribution The Company\x92 customers are primarily the education, creative, consumer, and business markets. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers and cataloguers. individual customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . The Company also sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly consumers, education customers, and businesses through its own sales force and retail and online stores. Ten percent the Company\x92 net sales were through its . education channel, including sales elementary and secondary schools, higher education institutions, and individual customers. Competition The Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. The markets for consumer electronics, personal computers and related software and peripheral products are highly competitive. These markets are characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software that have substantially increased the capabilities and use personal computers and other digital electronic devices and have resulted the frequent introduction new products with competitive price, feature, and performance characteristics. Over the past several years, price competition these markets have been particularly intense. The Company\x92 competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins gain maintain market share. The Company\x92 results operations and financial condition can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. The principal competitive factors include price, relative price performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, availability software, product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller, simpler, and less expensive than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. The Company\x92 music products and services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company believes currently retains competitive advantage from innovation and more effectively integrating the entire solution including the hardware (personal computer and iPod), software (iTunes), and distribution content (iTunes Store). However, the Company expects competition this space intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\x92 approach tightly integrate these components within their individual offerings , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more integrated than those they currently offer. Some these current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\x92 offerings. The Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent the Company\x92 ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform and the Company\x92 hardware, software and services related digital content maintain perceived functional and design advantages over competing platforms. Raw Materials Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability constraints and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components uncommon the rest the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. The Company attempts mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and internal and external manufacturing schedules and levels. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination formal purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. The Company\x92 purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company believes there are several component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\x92 business and financial position. this time, such vendors include Agere Systems, Inc., Ambit Microsystems Corporation, Amperex Technology Limited, ASUSTeK Corporation, ATI Technologies, Inc., Atheros Communications Inc., Optronics Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Chi Mei Optoelectronics Corporation, Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Hon Hai Precision Industry ., Ltd., Intel Corporation, Inventec Appliances Corporation, . Phillips ., Ltd., Matsushita, NVIDIA Corp., PortalPlayer, Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Renesas Semiconductor . Ltd., Samsung Electronics, Sony Corporation, Synaptics, Inc., Texas Instruments, and Toshiba Corporation. Research and Development Because the personal computer and consumer electronics industries are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\x92 ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products, services, and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, consumer electronic products, system software, applications software, networking and communications software and solutions, and the Internet. The Company may expand the range its product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and acquisition third-party business and technology. The Company\x92 research and development expenditures totaled $ million, $ million ( restated ( ) ), and $ million ( restated ( ) ) , , and , respectively. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer systems, iPods, peripherals, software, and services. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks and service marks the . and number foreign countries for \x93Apple,\x94 the Apple logo, \x93Macintosh,\x94 \x93iPod,\x94 \x93iTunes,\x94 \x93iTunes Store,\x94 and numerous other trademarks and service marks. Although the Company believes the ownership such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third-parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms; however, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained all. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third-parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data The . represents the Company\x92 largest geographic marketplace. Approximately % the Company\x92 net sales came from sales customers inside the . Final assembly products sold the Company currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California; Fullerton, California; Taiwan; the Republic Korea; the People\x92 Republic China; and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacturing many the components used the Company\x92 products performed third-party vendors Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, and iPods, performed third-party vendors China. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - and the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data.\x94 Seasonal Business The Company has historically experienced increased net sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters compared other quarters its fiscal year due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year. This historical pattern should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 future net sales financial performance. Warranty The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage most the Company\x92 hardware products all its major markets. Backlog the Company\x92 experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following new product introductions dealers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\x92 ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36121524657_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Environmental Laws Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect the Company\x92 capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. the future, these laws could have material adverse effect the Company. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 financial condition, liquidity, results operations. Employees September , , the Company had , full-time equivalent employees and additional , temporary equivalent employees and contractors. Available Information The Company\x92 Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, are filed with the . Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available the Company\x92 website http://www apple com investor when such reports are available the SEC website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC\x92 Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC http://www sec gov. The contents these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company\x92 references the URLs for these websites are intended inactive textual references only. ", 'item 1a. ': "Risk Factors Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. The matters relating the investigation the Special Committee the Board Directors and the restatement the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements may result additional litigation and governmental enforcement actions. June , , the Company announced that internal review had discovered irregularities related the issuance certain stock option grants made between and , including grant its Chief Executive Officer (\x93CEO\x94), Steve Jobs. The Company also announced Special Committee outside directors (\x93Special Committee\x94) had been formed and had hired independent counsel conduct full investigation the Company\x92 past stock option granting practices. described the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part , Item , and Note \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - , result the internal review and independent investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit and Finance Committee agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants made SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' certain prior periods. result, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard certain past stock option grants, and the Company has restated certain previously filed financial statements included this Form - . The internal review, the independent investigation, and related activities have required the Company incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management\x92 attention from the Company\x92 business, and could the future harm its business, financial condition, results operations and cash flows. While the Company believes has made appropriate judgments determining the correct measurement dates for its stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner which the Company has accounted for and reported, not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there risk the Company may have further restate its prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, take other actions not currently contemplated. The Company\x92 past stock option granting practices and the restatement prior financial statements have exposed the Company greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. described Part , Item , \x93Legal Proceedings\x94, several derivative complaints and class action complaint have been filed state and federal courts against the Company\x92 directors and certain its executive officers pertaining allegations relating stock option grants. The Company has provided the results its internal review and independent investigation the SEC and the United States Attorney\x92 Office for the Northern District California, and that regard the Company has responded informal requests for documents and additional information. The Company intends continue full cooperation. assurance can given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings government enforcement actions relating the Company\x92 past stock option practices. The resolution these matters will time consuming, expensive, and will distract management from the conduct the Company\x92 business. Furthermore, the Company subject adverse findings litigation, regulatory proceedings government enforcement actions, the Company could required pay damages penalties have other remedies imposed, which could harm its business, financial condition, results operations and cash flows. August , the Company received NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, result the delayed filing the Company\x92 Form - for the quarter ended July , (the \x93Third Quarter Form - \x94), the Company was not compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing set forth Marketplace Rule ( )( ) and was therefore subject delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. October , , the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted the Company\x92 request for continued listing, subject the Company filing the Third Quarter Form - , and any required restatements, with the SEC December , . December , , the Company filed the Third Quarter Form - with the SEC. With the filing this Form - , the Company believes that has remedied its non-compliance with Marketplace Rule ( )( ), subject NASDAQ\x92 affirmative completion its compliance protocols and its notification the Company accordingly. However, the SEC disagrees with the manner which the Company has accounted for and reported, not reported, the financial impact past stock option grants, there could further delays filing subsequent SEC reports that might result delisting the Company\x92 common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Unfavorable results legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed Part , Item this Form - . The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. Results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. addition, litigation may disruptive the Company\x92 normal SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' business operations. Should the Company fail prevail certain legal matters, the Company\x92 financial condition, liquidity, results operations could adversely affected. Economic conditions and political events could adversely affect the demand for the Company\x92 products and the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company\x92 operating performance depends significantly economic conditions the . and abroad. times the past, demand for the Company\x92 products has been negatively impacted difficult global economic conditions. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes difficult forecast future demand for the Company\x92 products and related operating results. Should global and regional economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company\x92 products could adversely affected, could the financial health its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism, public health issues, and other circumstances could disrupt supply, delivery, demand products, which could negatively affect the Company\x92 operations and performance. War, terrorism, public health issues, and other business interruptions, whether the . abroad, have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and global economy, and thus may have strong negative impact the global economy, the Company, and the Company\x92 suppliers customers. The Company\x92 major business operations are subject interruption earthquake, other natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. The majority the Company\x92 research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake other natural man-made disaster. Although impossible predict the occurrences consequences any such events, such events could result decrease demand for the Company\x92 products, make difficult impossible for the Company deliver products its customers receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company\x92 supply chain. addition, should major public health issues including pandemics arise, the Company could negatively affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations the availability freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between various regions, delays production ramps new products, and disruptions the operations the Company\x92 manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition have been, and the future may , adversely affected such events. The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services, well digital music devices and related services, highly competitive. the Company unable effectively compete these markets, its results operations could adversely affected. The personal computer industry highly competitive and characterized aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors, price sensitivity the part consumers, and large number competitors. Price competition the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense competitors who sell Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for personal computing products. The Company\x92 results operations and financial condition have been, and the future may continue , adversely affected these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures gross margins. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' The personal computer industry has also been characterized rapid technological advances software functionality, hardware performance, and features based existing emerging industry standards. Further, the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance the Internet, increasing number Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company\x92 existing products. Several competitors the Company have targeted certain the Company\x92 key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several the Company\x92 competitors have introduced digital music products and online stores offering digital music distribution that mimic many the unique design, technical features, and solutions the Company\x92 products. The Company has significant number competitors, many whom have broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those the Company. Additionally, there has been trend towards consolidation the personal computer industry that has resulted larger and potentially stronger competitors the Company\x92 markets. The Company currently the only maker hardware using the Mac . The Mac has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers utilizing competing operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent its ability continue develop improvements the Macintosh platform maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. Additionally, unauthorized copies the Mac are used other companies\x92 hardware products and result decreased demand for the Company\x92 hardware products, the Company\x92 results operations may adversely affected. The Company currently focused market opportunities related digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music products including MP3 players, music enabled cell phones, free peer- -peer music and video services, and free streaming digital content via the Internet. These competitors include both new entrants with different market approaches, such subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources, well established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships. Failure effectively compete could negatively affect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. The Company expects competition this space intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company\x92 approach tightly integrating these components within their individual offerings work more collaboratively with each other offer solutions that are more integrated than those they offer currently. Some these current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company\x92 offerings. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that effectively compete these markets. The Company may also have respond price competition lowering prices and increasing features which could adversely affect the Company\x92 music product gross margins well overall Company gross margins. The Company also faces significant competition the . education market. . elementary and secondary schools, well college and university customers, remain core market for the Company. effort gain market share and remain competitive, the Company will continue pursue one- -one ( : ) learning solutions education. : learning solutions typically consist portable computer for every student and teacher along with the installation wireless network . These : learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result significantly less profitability financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes has taken certain steps strengthen its position the education market, there can assurance that the Company will able increase maintain its share the education market execute profitably large strategic SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' arrangements. Failure may have adverse impact the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company\x92 ability obtain sufficient supply components, including microprocessors, some which are short supply available only from limited sources. Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, NAND flash-memory, and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. situations where component product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time the suppliers\x92 yields have matured. The Company and other producers the personal computer and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer consumer electronics industries. Continued availability these components may affected producers decided concentrate the production components other than those customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. the supply key component were delayed constrained new existing product, the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions the Company\x92 existing products. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance; the Company\x92 ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, including the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, and production ramp issues; the availability application software for new products; the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand; the availability products appropriate quantities and costs meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality other defects the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new products will have its sales results operations. June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its computers. During , the Company introduced new Intel-based models the MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini computers. The Company\x92 transition Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed August , and its transition for Xserve was completed November . This transition has been and will continue subject numerous risks and uncertainties including the timely innovation and delivery related hardware and software products support Intel microprocessors, market acceptance Intel-based Macintosh computers, and the development and availability acceptable terms components and services essential enable the Company timely deliver Intel-based Macintosh computers. addition, the Company dependent third-party software developers such Microsoft and Adobe timely develop current and future applications that run Intel-based Macintosh computers. Universal versions Microsoft Office and Adobe\x92 Creative Suite applications are not currently available. Additionally, there can assurance that the Company will able maintain its SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' historical gross margin percentages its products, including Intel-based Macintosh computers, which may adversely impact the Company\x92 results operations. The Company\x92 products from time time experience quality problems that can result decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain \x93bugs\x94 that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation the software. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can assurance that the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware and software sells. Failure could result lost revenue, loss reputation, and significant warranty and other expense remedy. Because orders for components, and some cases commitments purchase components, must placed advance customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products that have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees for orders products and components that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are currently adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the computer and consumer electronics industries and the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. addition, such charges have had, and may have, material effect the Company\x92 financial position and results operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, and because the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third parties excess insufficient inventories particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition have been the past and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. The Company dependent manufacturing and logistics services provided third parties, many whom are located outside the . Most the Company\x92 products are manufactured whole part third-party manufacturers. addition, the Company has outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the cost operations, they also reduce the Company\x92 direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity the products manufactured services rendered, the flexibility the Company respond changing market conditions. addition, the Company reliant third-party manufacturers adhere the Company\x92 supplier code conduct. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain least initially responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects. Any unanticipated product defect warranty liability, whether pursuant arrangements with contract manufacturers otherwise, could adversely affect the Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' Final assembly products sold the Company currently performed the Company\x92 manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland, and external vendors Fremont, California; Fullerton, California; Taiwan; the Republic Korea; the People\x92 Republic China; and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacturing many the components used the Company\x92 products performed third-party vendors Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly substantially all the Company\x92 portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, and iPods, performed third-party vendors China. for any reason manufacturing logistics any these locations disrupted regional economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues, due information technology system failures military actions, the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition could adversely affected. The Company\x92 future operating performance dependent the performance distributors and other resellers the Company\x92 products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and cataloguers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. addition, the Company sells many its products and resells certain third-party products most its major markets directly end-users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail stores. Many the Company\x92 resellers operate narrow product margins and have been negatively impacted the past weak economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. The Company\x92 business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these resellers weakens, resellers within consumer channels were cease distribution the Company\x92 products, uncertainty regarding demand for the Company\x92 products caused resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company\x92 products. The Company has invested and will continue invest various programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers\x92 stores with Company employees and contractors. These programs could require substantial investment from the Company, while providing assurance return incremental revenue offset this investment. Over the past several years, increasing proportion the Company\x92 net sales have been made the Company directly end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Some the Company\x92 resellers have perceived this expansion the Company\x92 direct sales conflicting with their own businesses and economic interests distributors and resellers the Company\x92 products. Perception such conflict could discourage the Company\x92 resellers from investing additional resources the distribution and sale the Company\x92 products lead them limit cease distribution the Company\x92 products. The Company\x92 business and financial results could adversely affected expansion its direct sales end-users causes some all its resellers cease limit distribution the Company\x92 products. The Company relies third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with third parties offer their digital content customers through the Company\x92 iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees obtain the rights offer its customers this third-party digital content. The Company\x92 licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term nature and not guarantee the future renewal these arrangements commercially reasonable terms, all. Certain parties the music industry have consolidated and formed alliances, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required offer digital content customers through the iTunes Store. Some third-party content providers currently may the future offer music products and services that compete with the Company\x92 music products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license their digital content the future. Further, other distributors third-party content third-party content owners may seek limit SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' the Company\x92 access increase the total cost such content. the Company unable continue offer wide variety digital content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach outside the ., then sales and gross margins the Company\x92 iTunes Store, well related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management (\x93DRM\x94) solutions and other security mechanisms. the requirements from content providers artists change, then the Company may required further develop license technology address such new rights and requirements. addition, certain countries have passed legislation may propose legislation that would force the Company license its DRM solutions that content would interoperable with competitor devices, which could lessen the protection content subjecting piracy and could affect arrangements with the Company\x92 content suppliers. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner, all, which could have materially adverse effect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. The Company\x92 future performance dependent upon support from third-party software developers. third-party software applications cease developed available for the Company\x92 hardware products, then customers may choose not buy the Company\x92 products. The Company believes decisions customers purchase the Company\x92 personal computers, opposed Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software applications such Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability third-party application software for the Company\x92 hardware products depends part third-party developers\x92 perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company\x92 products versus software for the larger Windows market growing Linux market. This analysis may based factors such the perceived strength the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may generated, continued acceptance customers Mac , and the costs developing such software products. the extent the minority market share held the Company the personal computer market has caused software developers question the Company\x92 prospects the personal computer market, developers could less inclined develop new application software upgrade existing software for the Company\x92 products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market growing Linux market. The Company\x92 recent announcement that plans add feature the next version Mac that will enable Intel-based Macintosh systems run Windows may deter developers from creating software applications for Mac such applications are available for the Windows platform. Moreover, there can assurance software developers will continue develop software for Mac timely basis all. June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its computers. During , the Company introduced new Intel-based models the MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini computers. The Company\x92 transition Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed August , and its transition for Xserve was completed November . The Company depends third-party software developers timely develop current and future applications that run Intel microprocessors. Universal versions Microsoft Office and Adobe\x92 Creative Suite applications are not currently available. The lack applications that run Intel-based Macintosh systems, including Microsoft Office and Adobe Creative Suite, could have materially adverse effect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. addition, past and future development the Company its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision software developers, such Microsoft and Adobe, develop, maintain, and upgrade similar competitive software for the Company\x92 products. The Company currently markets and sells variety software applications for use professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence the decisions third-party software developers develop SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, professional digital photo editing and workflow management, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, word processing, and high-quality presentations. Discontinuance third-party software products for the Macintosh platform could have adverse effect the Company\x92 net sales and results operations. The Company\x92 business relies access patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company\x92 future results could adversely affected alleged found have infringed the intellectual property rights others. Many the Company\x92 products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could obtained commercially reasonable terms. However, there can assurance that the necessary licenses would available available acceptable terms. Because technological changes the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible certain components the Company\x92 products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company has from time time been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights others. Responding such claims, regardless their merit, can time-consuming, result significant expenses, and cause the diversion management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are various stages evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability entering into licensing agreements certain these cases. However, assurance can given that such licenses can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. the event there temporary permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing selling certain its products successful claim infringement against the Company requiring pay royalties third-party, the Company\x92 future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and litigation involving the Company related alleged patent infringement and other matters set forth Part , Item this Form - . the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability for damages royalties from any current legal proceedings claims related the infringement patent other intellectual property rights others that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its results operations financial condition. However, the results such legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any the matters related infringement patent other intellectual property rights others described Part , Item this Form - should several these matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company\x92 retail initiative has required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and subject numerous risks and uncertainties. Through September , , the Company had opened retail stores. The Company\x92 retail initiative has required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from years, the majority which are for years. The Company could incur substantial costs should choose terminate these commitments close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Additionally, relatively high proportion the Retail segment\x92 costs are fixed because personnel costs, SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' depreciation store construction costs, and lease expense. result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience significant decline sales for any reason. Certain the Company\x92 stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues that function vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company\x92 more typical retail stores. The Company has opened eight such stores through September . Because their location and size, these high-profile stores also require the Company enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared those required for its more typical stores. Current leases such locations have terms ranging from years with total remaining commitments per location ranging from $ million $ million. Closure poor performance one these high-profile stores could have significant negative impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Many the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have adverse impact its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the Company\x92 control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment\x92 future results, cause its actual results differ from those currently expected, and have adverse effect the Company\x92 consolidated results operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique retail operations that could have adverse impact the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have negative impact general retail activity; inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation; inability sell third-party hardware and software products adequate margins; failure manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack experience managing retail operations outside the .; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company\x92 ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has and may the future invest new business strategies engage acquisitions that complement the Company\x92 strategic direction and product roadmap. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management\x92 attention away from current business operations; insufficient revenue generation offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered the Company\x92 due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, assurance can given that such strategies and initiatives will successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company\x92 business, operating results financial condition. Declines the sales the Company\x92 professional products, software, accessories, service and support contracts, increases sales consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\x92 professional products, including MacBook Pro and Mac Pro systems, software, accessories, and service and support contracts, generally have higher gross margins than the Company\x92 consumer products, including the iMac, Mac mini, MacBook, iPod, and content from the iTunes Store. shift sales mix away from higher margin professional products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the Company\x92 future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company\x92 traditional professional customers may choose buy consumer products, specifically the iMac and MacBook, instead professional products. Professional users may choose buy the iMac due its relative price performance and unique design featuring flat panel screen. Professional users may also choose purchase MacBooks instead the Company\x92 professional-oriented portable products due their price performance and screen size. Additionally, significant future growth iPod sales without SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' corresponding growth higher margin product sales could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate for variety reasons. The Company\x92 profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company\x92 direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. result, the Company\x92 gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability may adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, new product announcements, including the transition Intel-based Macintosh computers. addition, the Company generally sells more product during the third month each quarter than does during either the first two months, pattern typical the personal computer and consumer electronics industries. This sales pattern can produce pressure the Company\x92 internal infrastructure during the third month quarter and may adversely impact the Company\x92 ability predict its financial results accurately. Furthermore, the Company has typically experienced greater net sales the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared other quarters the fiscal year due seasonal demand related the holiday season and the beginning the school year. Developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company\x92 products, internal systems failure, failure one the Company\x92 key logistics, components suppliers, manufacturing partners, could have significant adverse impacts the Company and its results operations and financial condition. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, percentage revenue, than many its competitors. The Company\x92 ability compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow innovative and competitive products and technologies the marketplace. result, the Company generally incurs higher research and development costs percentage revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based other operating systems. Many these competitors seek compete aggressively price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, result the expansion the Company\x92 Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company\x92 brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs percentage revenue than many its competitors. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results operations may materially adversely affected its operating cost structure. The Company exposed credit risk its accounts receivable and prepayments related long-term supply agreements. This risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly certain educational institutions and commercial customers. substantial majority the Company\x92 outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale the Company raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has entered into long-term supply agreements secure supply NAND flash-memory and has prepaid total $ billion under these agreements. While the Company has procedures place monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and non-trade receivables well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effective limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, the global economy regional economies deteriorate, the Company would more likely incur material loss losses result the weakening financial condition one more its customers manufacturing vendors. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' The Company\x92 success depends largely its ability attract and retain key personnel. Much the future success the Company depends the continued service and availability skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members its executive team, and those technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel the information technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially the Silicon Valley, where the majority the Company\x92 key employees are located. The Company has relied its ability grant stock options one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing stock options have resulted increased stock-based compensation expense, which may cause the Company reduce the amount stock-based awards issued employees. There can assurance that the Company will continue successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company subject risks associated with the availability and coverage insurance. For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because cost and availability. Because the Company retains some portion its insurable risks, and some cases self insures completely, unforeseen catastrophic losses excess insured limits may have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. Failure information technology systems and breaches the security data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the Company\x92 future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches data security could disrupt the Company\x92 ability function the normal course business potentially causing delays cancellation customer orders, impeding the manufacture shipment products, resulting the unintentional disclosure customer Company information. Management has taken steps address these concerns for its own systems implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can assurance that system failure data security breach the Company third-party vendor will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations. The Company\x92 business subject the risks international operations. large portion the Company\x92 revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\x92 operating results and financial condition could significantly affected risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including . taxes foreign subsidiaries), and changes the value the . dollar versus the local currency which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company\x92 primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relate non- . dollar denominated sales Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company\x92 products and the . dollar value the Company\x92 foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, strengthening these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company modify international pricing and affect the value the Company\x92 foreign denominated sales, and some cases, may also increase the cost the Company some product components. Margins sales the Company\x92 products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such foreign exchange forward and option positions have been utilized the Company hedge exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' Further information related the Company\x92 global market risks may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading \x93Foreign Currency Risk\x94 and may found Part , Item this Form - Notes and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company subject risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 financial condition, liquidity, results operations. Changes accounting rules could affect the Company\x92 future operating results. Financial statements are prepared accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject interpretation various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\x93FASB\x94) and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. change from current accounting standards could have significant effect the Company\x92 results operations. December , the FASB issued new guidance that addresses the accounting for share-based payments, Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . (revised ) (\x93SFAS . 123R\x94), Share-Based Payment , which the Company adopted . , stock-based compensation expense reduced diluted earnings per common share approximately $ . Although the adoption SFAS . 123R expected continue have significant impact the Company\x92 results operations, future changes various assumptions used determine the fair-value awards issued the amount and type equity awards granted create uncertainty the amount future stock-based compensation expense. Changes the Company\x92 tax rates could affect its future results. The Company\x92 future effective tax rates could favorably unfavorably affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation. addition, the Company subject the continuous examination its income tax returns the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for income taxes. There can assurance the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have adverse effect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. The Company\x92 stock price may volatile. The Company\x92 stock has times experienced substantial price volatility result variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and result announcements the Company and its competitors. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price many technology companies ways that may have been unrelated the operating performance these companies. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. the Company fails meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. addition, increases the Company\x92 stock price may result greater dilution earnings per share. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\JMS\\skumar\\ - - \\task1586490\\ - - htm',USER=' ', ='Dec : ' ", 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\x92 headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the ., and lesser extent, Europe, Japan, Canada, and the Asia Pacific region. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide renewal options for terms additional years. Leased space includes approximately million square feet retail space, majority which the . Lease terms for retail space range from years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. The Company owns , square-foot manufacturing facility Cork, Ireland that also houses customer support call center. The Company also owns , square feet facilities Sacramento, California that include warehousing and distribution operations well customer support call center. addition, the Company owns approximately million square feet facilities for research and development and corporate functions Cupertino, California, including approximately , square feet purchased during for the future development the Company\x92 second corporate campus, and approximately , square feet for data center Newark, California. Outside the ., the Company owns additional facilities totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': "Legal Proceedings The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed below. The Company also subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and which have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. The Company settled certain matters during that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company\x92 results operations. Allen . Apple Computer, Inc. January , , plaintiff filed purported nationwide class action Los Angeles Superior Court alleging that defect the Company\x92 -inch Studio Display monitors results dimming half the screen and constant blinking the power light. Plaintiff filed amended complaint October , , adding additional named plaintiffs and expanding the alleged class include purchasers the -inch Apple Cinema Display and the -inch Apple Cinema Display. The amended complaint alleges that the displays have purported defect that causes dimming one-half the screen, and that the Company misrepresented the quality the displays and concealed the purported defect. Plaintiffs assert claims under California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition); California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising) and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act. The amended complaint seeks remedies including damages and equitable relief. November , , the Company SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' filed answer the amended complaint the allegations regarding the -inch display and demurrer motion strike the allegations regarding the -inch and -inch displays the ground that plaintiffs failed allege that they purchased those displays. status conference November , , the Court ordered Plaintiffs amend their complaint. Plaintiff filed amended complaint December , , and the Company answered January , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has reached settlement this matter, which was given preliminary approval the Court September , . The final approval hearing scheduled for February , . Settlement this matter will not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Apple Computer, Inc. . Burst com, Inc. The Company filed action for declaratory judgment against Defendant Burst com, Inc. January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The Company seeks declaratory judgment that . Patent Nos. , , , , , , , , and , , (\x93Burst patents\x94) are invalid and not infringed the Company. Burst filed answer and counterclaim April , . Burst alleges that the following Apple products and services infringe . Patent Nos. , , , , , , , , , and , , ; iTunes Store, iPod devices, QuickTime products (including QuickTime player and QuickTime Streaming Server), iTunes software, other Apple software products (Final Cut Studio, GarageBand, iMovie, iDVD, iWeb), the use the Mac services and Apple computers and servers running iTunes, QuickTime, the other named Apple software products. The Burst patents allegedly relate methods and devices used for \x93burst\x94 transmission audio video files. The case discovery. claim construction hearing set for February , . Trial set for February , . Apple Corps Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Apple Computer, Inc. . Apple Corps Ltd. Plaintiff Apple Corps filed this action July , the High Court Justice, Chancery Division, London alleging that the Company has breached agreement that resolved earlier trademark litigation between the parties regarding use certain Apple marks. Plaintiff seeks injunction, unspecified damages, and other relief. The Company filed motion October , , challenging jurisdiction the . The Court denied this motion April , . The Company filed appeal the Court\x92 decision but subsequently withdrew the appeal. November , Plaintiff served the Company with Amended Bill Particulars and December , , the Company filed Defence. November , , Plaintiff filed -Amended Bill Particulars and the Company filed its Defence December , . Trial took place from March , through April , . Judgment was given favor the Company May , and Apple Corps was ordered pay portion the Company\x92 fees, the amount agreed determined subsequent proceeding. Apple Corps has filed appeal, which scheduled heard late February . October , , the Company filed lawsuit against Apple Corps the United States District Court for the Northern District California requesting declaratory judgment that the Company has not breached the agreement. Apple Corps challenged jurisdiction the California case but the Court denied that challenge March , . Apple Corps subsequently prevailed motion stay the California case during the pendency the . action. The Company has dismissed the California lawsuit without prejudice. Bader . Anderson, . Plaintiff filed this purported shareholder derivative action against the Company and each its then current executive officers and members its Board Directors May , Santa Clara County Superior Court asserting claims for breach fiduciary duty, material misstatements and omissions, and violations California Businesses & Professions Code § (unfair competition). Plaintiff alleges that the Company\x92 March , , proxy statement was false and misleading for failure disclose certain information relating the Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan, which was approved SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' shareholders the annual meeting held April , . Plaintiff, who ostensibly brings suit the Company\x92 behalf, has made demand the Board Directors and alleges that such demand excused. Plaintiff seeks injunctive and other relief for purported injury the Company. July , , Plaintiff filed amended complaint alleging that, addition the purported derivative claims, adoption the bonus plan and distribution the proxy statement describing that plan also inflicted injury her directly individual shareholder. January , , the Court sustained defendants\x92 demurrer the amended complaint, with leave amend. Plaintiff filed second amended complaint February , , and the Company filed demurrer. After hearing June , , the Court sustained the demurrer without leave amend the non-director officers and with leave amend the directors. July , , plaintiff filed third amended complaint, which purports bring claims derivatively well directly behalf class common stock holders who have been will harmed virtue the allegedly misleading proxy statement. addition reasserting prior causes action, the third amended complaint includes claim that the Company violated the terms the plan, and claim for waste related restricted stock unit grants certain officers and and option grant the Company\x92 CEO January . demurrer that the Company filed the third amended complaint well motion disqualify the Company\x92 lawyers will heard January , . Baghdasarian, . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this action Los Angeles County Superior Court October , , behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers all Apple wireless products (router, modem, adaptor) sold any time. The complaint alleges that the Company misrepresented the transmission rates these products. The complaint alleges causes action for breach express warranty and for violations the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising). The complaint seeks damages and equitable remedies. December , , the Company filed answer denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The parties have reached tentative settlement, which not expected have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Barry . . Apple Computer, Inc. Two Plaintiffs filed this purported class action May , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division, behalf nationwide class iPod purchasers between May and the present. The complaint alleged various problems with the iPod hard drive, including skipping and limited lifespan. Plaintiffs alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and breach warranties. The complaint sought damages and equitable relief. The plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed this case, without prejudice, September , . Birdsong . Apple Computer, Inc.; Patterson . Apple Computer, Inc. These federal court complaints allege that the Company\x92 iPod music players, and the ear bud headphones sold with them, are inherently defective design and are sold without adequate warnings concerning the risk noise-induced hearing loss iPod users. The Birdsong action was initially filed January , the United States District Court for the Western District Louisiana behalf purported Louisiana class iPod purchasers and alleges violations the Louisiana Products Liability Act, breaches implied warranties, unjust enrichment, and negligent misrepresentation. The Patterson action was filed January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California behalf purported class all iPod purchasers within the four-year period before January , . That action alleged breaches implied and express warranties, violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, breaches express and implied warranties, negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment. The Birdsong action was transferred the Northern District California, and the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Patterson action was dismissed. amended complaint was subsequently filed Birdsong, dropping the Louisiana law-based claims and adding California law-based claims equivalent those Patterson. The Company filed motion dismiss November , . Plaintiffs will not oppose the motion but instead will file second amended complaint January , . similar complaint, Royer-Brennan . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc., was filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada, February , , seeking authorization institute class action behalf iPod purchasers Quebec. hearing the motion for class certification scheduled for February and , , although Plaintiff counsel has now requested that the hearing delayed pending ruling the motion dismiss the . case. Branning . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs originally filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court February , . The initial complaint alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and violation the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) regarding variety purportedly unfair and unlawful conduct including, but not limited , allegedly selling used computers new and failing honor warranties. Plaintiffs also brought causes action for misappropriation trade secrets, breach contract, and violation the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiffs requested unspecified damages and other relief. May , , the Court granted the Company\x92 motion transfer the case Santa Clara County Superior Court. May , , Plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding two new named plaintiffs and three new causes action including claim for treble damages under the Cartwright Act (California Business & Professions Code § seq.) and claim for false advertising. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint, which the Court sustained its entirety November , . The Court granted Plaintiffs leave amend and they filed amended complaint December , . Plaintiffs\x92 amended complaint added three plaintiffs and alleged many the same factual claims the previous complaints, such alleged selling used equipment new, alleged failure honor warranties and service contracts for the consumer plaintiffs, and alleged fraud related the opening the Apple retail stores. Plaintiffs continued assert causes action for unfair competition (§ ), violations the CLRA, breach contract, misappropriation trade secrets, violations the Cartwright Act and alleged new causes action for fraud, conversion and breach the implied covenant good faith and fair dealing. The Company filed demurrer the amended complaint January , , which the Court sustained March , sixteen seventeen causes action. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint adding one new plaintiff. The Company filed demurrer, which was granted part September , . Plaintiffs filed further amended complaint September , . October , , the Company filed answer denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The case discovery. Butzer, . . Apple Computer, Inc.;Wirges . Apple Computer, Inc.; Blackwell . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed the Butzer action August , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division, behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers the Company\x92 PowerBook portable computers. The complaint alleged defects the memory the computers. The complaint alleged that this purported defect extends other series the Company\x92 portables and stated that plaintiffs reserved the right amend the complaint include these other series. Plaintiffs asserted claims for alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) and the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. The complaint sought remedies including restitution and damages and injunctive relief. The Wirges action was filed January , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Arkansas, also behalf purported nationwide class, and made similar allegations. Plaintiffs asserted claims for breach warranties, violation the Magnuson\x97Moss Act, strict products liability and unjust enrichment. The complaint sought restitution, damages and other remedies. The Blackwell action was filed February , the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' United States District Court for the Northern District California, behalf purported nationwide class, and made identical allegations those made the Butzer case. Plaintiffs asserted claims for breach express and implied warranties, violation the CLRA, violation the Song-Beverly Act, false advertising and unfair competition. The complaint sought restitution, injunction and other remedies. The Company filed answer the Butzer complaint October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company filed answer the Wirges action February , , and also filed motion transfer the Wirges case the Northern District California. The Company filed answer the Blackwell complaint March , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has reached settlement with the named plaintiffs all three cases and these matters are concluded. Settlement these matters did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Charoensak . Apple Computer, Inc. (formerly Slattery . Apple Computer, Inc.) The original Plaintiff (Slattery) filed this purported class action January , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and vice versa and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. Plaintiff\x92 complaint alleged violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business and Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business and Professions Code § (unfair competition), common law unjust enrichment and common law monopolization. Plaintiff sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed motion dismiss February , . September , , the Court denied the motion part and granted part. Plaintiff filed amended complaint September , and the Company filed answer October , . May , , the Court heard Plaintiff\x92 motion for leave file second amended complaint substitute two new plaintiffs for Slattery. August , the court dismissed Slattery without prejudice and allowed plaintiffs file amended complaint naming two new plaintiffs (Charoensak and Rosen). November , , the Company filed answer the amended complaint denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The hearing class certification set for April , . Contois Music Technology LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Contois Music Technology filed this action June , the United States District Court for Vermont, alleging infringement the Company . Patent . , , , entitled \x93Computer Control System and User Interface for Media Playing Devices.\x94 The complaint sought unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer November , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Markman hearing was held June , and the court issued claim construction ruling July , . The parties agreed settlement and the case was dismissed August , . This matter now concluded. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Creative Technology Ltd. and Creative Labs, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed May , , International Trade Comission), Creative Technology Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed May , , United States District Court for the Northern District California), Apple Computer, Inc. . Creative Technology Ltd. and Creative Labs, Inc. (filed May , , United States District Court for the Western District Wisconsin), Apple Computer, Inc. . Creative Technology Ltd. and Creative Labs, Inc. (filed June , , International Trade Comission), Apple Computer, Inc. . Creative Technology Ltd. and Creative Labs (filed June , , United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas) May , , Creative Labs, Inc., and Creative Technology Ltd. (collectively \x93Creative\x94) filed complaint with the . International Trade Commission (\x93ITC\x94) alleging that the Company infringed . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94) and seeking order permanently barring iPods from importation into the United States. May , , Creative also brought suit against the Company SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' the United States District Court for the Northern District California, also alleging that the iPod infringed the \x91 patent. The District Court action was stayed pending resolution the Creative ITC Action. May , , the Company brought suit against Creative the United States District Court for the Western District Wisconsin (\x93Wisconsin Action\x94), alleging that Creative infringed . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94), . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94), . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94), and . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94). May , , the Company filed amended complaint the Wisconsin Action alleging that Creative also infringed . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94), . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94), and . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94). June , , the Company brought suit against Creative the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, (\x93Texas Action\x94), alleging that Creative infringed . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94), . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94), and . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94). June , , the Company filed amended complaint the Texas Action alleging that Creative also infringed . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94) and . patent number , , (\x93\x91 patent\x94). the suggestion the District Court, the Company filed separate actions the Eastern District Texas regarding the Company\x92 allegations relating the \x91 patent and the \x91 patent. June , , the Company filed complaint with the ITC alleging that Creative infringed the \x91 patent, the \x91 patent, and the \x91 patent. June , , the Company filed amended complaint with the ITC alleging that Creative also infringed the \x91 patent. The parties reached settlement all the above matters and all cases were dismissed October , . These matters are concluded. Settlement these matters did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Davis . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Francisco County Superior Court December , , alleging that the Company engaged unfair and deceptive business practices relating its AppleCare Extended Service and Warranty Plan. Plaintiff asserts causes action for violation California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), breach the Song-Beverly Warranty Act, intentional misrepresentation and concealment. Plaintiff requests unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed demurrer and motion strike, which were granted, part, and Plaintiff filed amended complaint. The Company filed answer April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Plaintiff subsequently amended his complaint. October , , the Company filed motion disqualify Plaintiff\x92 counsel his role counsel the purported class and the general public. The Court granted the motion but allowed Plaintiff retain substitute counsel. Plaintiff did engage new counsel for the general public, but not for the class. The Company moved disqualify Plaintiff\x92 new counsel and have the Court dismiss the general public claims for equitable relief. The Court declined disqualify Plaintiff\x92 new counsel dismiss the equitable claims, but did confirm that the class action claims were dismissed. The Company appealed the ruling and the case was stayed pending the outcome the appeal. The Court Appeals denied the appeal August , , affirming the trial court\x92 decision. The Company filed Petition for review with the California Supreme Court, which was denied November , . The case was remanded back the trial court. The parties have reached settlement and the matter concluded. Settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' European Commission Investigation The European Commission has notified the Company investigating certain matters relating the iTunes Store the European Union (\x93 \x94). The European Commission investigating claims made Which?, United Kingdom ( ) consumer association, that the Company violating competition law charging more for online music the than Eurozone countries and preventing consumers from purchasing online music from the iTunes Store for Eurozone countries. The Which? claims were originally lodged with the Office Fair Trading, which subsequently referred them the European Commission. The European Commission investigating the charges under Articles and the European Commission Treaty. Euro Tec Enterprises, Inc. . . Apple Computer, Inc. . This purported class action copyright infringement case filed May , the United States District Court for the Central District California certain independent music publishers against the Company and several other defendants for allegedly failing secure compulsory license for copyrighted musical compositions being sold downloads. Plaintiffs\x92 complaint seeks injunction, damages and other relief. The Company filed answer July , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The case discovery and set for trial November , class certified June , class certified. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint October , and the Company filed amended answer November , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Gillis . . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiffs filed this purported class action December , San Diego County Superior Court alleging the Company has misrepresented the hard drive capacity two Powerbook computers: the -inch, 5GHz computer with 512MB memory and 100GB hard drive; and the -inch, 67GHz computer with 1GB memory and 100GB hard drive. Plaintiffs alleged that the Company\x92 standard disclosure its packaging regarding hard drive size was not present the packaging for these two models. The complaint alleged violations the California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and causes action for deceit and negligent misrepresentation. Plaintiffs sought restitution and other relief. February , , the Company filed demurrer and motion strike. The Company withdrew the demurrer and motion strike per stipulation. The Company has reached Court-approved settlement with the Plaintiffs this action and the matter concluded. The settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Goldberg, . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs filed this purported class action September , Los Angeles County Superior Court against the Company and other members the computer industry behalf alleged nationwide class purchasers certain computer hard drives. The case alleged violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and false advertising related the size the drives. Plaintiffs alleged that calculation hard drive size using the decimal method misrepresents the actual size the drive. The complaint sought restitution and other relief. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint March , and the Company filed answer September , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Defendants filed motion strike portions the complaint based sales resellers and filed motion for judgment the pleadings based upon Proposition . The Court granted both motions hearing April , . Plaintiffs thereafter filed amended complaint May , . The Defendants filed demurrer June , , which the Court granted part and denied part. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint and the Company filed answer December , denying all allegations and asserting numerous assertive defenses. The Company reached Court-approved settlement with the Plaintiffs this action SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' and the matter concluded. The settlement this matter did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. Gordon . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action August , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division, behalf purported nationwide class consumers who purchased 65W Power Adapters for iBooks and Powerbooks between November and the present. The complaint alleges various problems with the 65W Adapter, including fraying, sparking and premature failure. Plaintiffs allege violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and breach warranties. The complaint seeks damages and equitable relief. The Company filed answer October , denying the material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Mediation set for March , . Greaves . Apple Computer, Inc. June , Plaintiff filed this purported class action San Diego Superior Court behalf purported class California purchasers alleging discoloration the MacBook case. Plaintiff asserts claims under California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising), California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act and misrepresentation. Plaintiff\x92 complaint seeks damages and equitable relief. Plaintiff filed First Amended Complaint August , . The Company filed answer October , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. Honeywell International, Inc., . . Apple Computer, Inc., . Plaintiffs Honeywell International, Inc. and Honeywell Intellectual Properties, Inc. filed this action October , the United States District Court Delaware alleging infringement the Company and other defendants . Patent , , entitled \x93Directional Diffuser for Liquid Crystal Display.\x94 Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer December , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company has tendered the case several LCD manufacturer suppliers. May , the Court stayed the case against the Company and the other non-manufacturer defendants. Plaintiffs filed amended complaint November , adding additional defendants and expanding the scope the accused products. Given the stay, the Company\x92 response the amended complaint not yet due. Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation (formerly Karant . Jobs, . and Related Actions) (Federal Action) June , , putative derivative action captioned Karant . Jobs, . . , was filed the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division. number related actions were filed the subsequent weeks and have been consolidated into single action captioned Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation , Master File . - - - before the Hon. Jeremy Fogel. Consolidated Shareholder Derivative Complaint was filed December , . The action purports assert claims behalf the Company against several current and former executive officers and members the Board Directors alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain defendants\x92 profits, failing properly account for and take tax deductions for those grants, insider trading and issuing false financial statements. The Company named nominal defendant. The consolidated complaint alleges various causes action under federal and California law, including claims for unjust enrichment, breach fiduciary duty, violation the California Corporations Code, abuse control, gross mismanagement, rescission, constructive fraud and waste corporate assets, well claims under Sections ( ), ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act. Plaintiffs seek damages, disgorgement, restitution and imposition constructive trust. The actions were filed after the Company\x92 SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' announcement June , that internal investigation had discovered irregularities related the issuance certain stock option grants made between and , that special committee the Company\x92 outside directors had retained independent counsel perform investigation, and that the Company had informed the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company\x92 response the Consolidated Complaint not yet due. Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation (formerly Plumbers and Pipefitters . Jobs, . and Related Actions) (State Action); Boston Retirement Board . Apple Computer, Inc. July , , putative derivative action captioned Plumbers and Pipefitters . Jobs, . . , was filed California Superior Court for the County Santa Clara. number related actions were filed the subsequent weeks, and have been consolidated into single action captioned Apple Computer, Inc. Derivative Litigation , . :06CV066692, assigned the Hon. Joseph Huber. These actions purport assert claims behalf the Company against several current and former executive officers and members the Board Directors alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain defendants\x92 profits, failing properly account for and take tax deductions for those grants and issuing false financial statements. The Company named nominal defendant. consolidated complaint was filed October , , alleging variety causes action under California law, including claims for unjust enrichment, breach fiduciary duty, violation the California Corporations Code, abuse control, accounting, constructive trust, rescission, deceit, gross mismanagement and waste corporate assets. December , , the Court granted the Company\x92 motion stay these actions. November , , the Boston Retirement Board, purported shareholder, filed petition for writ mandate against the Company California Superior Court for the County Santa Clara County ( Boston Retirement Board . Apple Computer Inc. ). The petition seeks compel the Company allow inspection certain corporate records relating the Company\x92 option practices and the Special Committee\x92 investigation. The Company\x92 response the petition not yet due. Lenzi . Apple Canada, Inc.; Wolfe . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc.; Hirst . Apple Canada, Inc.; Hamilton . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc. Plaintiff filed purported class action June , , Superior Court, Montreal, Quebec, Canada allegedly behalf Quebec customers claiming false advertising and breach warranty relating iPod battery life. Plaintiff sought authorization institute class action behalf Generations , and iPod owners Quebec. February , , the Court dismissed Plaintiff\x92 motion for authorization institute class action. Plaintiff has appealed this ruling, and the appeal will heard February , . Two similar complaints relative iPod battery life, Wolfe . Apple and Hirst . Apple , were filed Toronto, Ontario, Canada August , and September , , respectively. Both actions define the purported class national class consisting all persons Canada who have purchased who own iPod. Counsel has proposed amended complaint which the Company has not consented. addition, similar complaint regarding iPod battery life, Hamilton . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc. was filed Alberta, Calgary, Canada October , , purportedly behalf all purchasers iPods Alberta, Canada. That complaint has not been served. MacTech Systems . Apple Computer, Inc.; Macadam . Apple Computer, Inc.; Computer International, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Elite Computers and Software, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; The Neighborhood Computer Store . Apple Computer, Inc.; MacAccessory Center, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc.; Creative Online Computer Services, Inc., DBA MacOnline . Apple Computer, Inc.; MacGuys, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. (all Santa Clara County Superior Court) Eight resellers filed similar lawsuits against the Company between late and early asserting various causes action including breach contract, fraud, negligent and intentional interference with SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' economic relationship, negligent misrepresentation, trade libel, unfair competition and false advertising. Plaintiffs requested unspecified damages and other relief. The Company answered the Computer International complaint November , , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company filed answer the Macadam case December , denying all allegations and asserting numerous defenses. Three the other Plaintiffs filed amended complaints February , , and March , the Company filed answers these claims denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. sixth Plaintiff, MacAccessory Center, filed complaint February , . The Company filed answer this complaint April , denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. February , , MacGuys and Creative Online filed complaints against the Company. All these cases with the exception Macadam were coordinated for discovery (along with the Branning class action) Santa Clara Superior Court. The Elite, Neighborhood Computer Store, MacTech and MacAccessory cases were set for trial November , . The Company has reached settlements with Computer International, MacTech Systems, Elite Computers and Software, Inc., MacAccessory Center, Inc., The Neighborhood Computer Store, Creative Online Computer Services, Inc., and MacGuys, Inc. and these matters are concluded. These settlements did not have material effect the Company\x92 financial position results operations. October , , one the reseller Plaintiffs, Macadam, was deauthorized Apple reseller. Macadam filed motion for temporary order reinstate reseller, which the Court denied. The Court denied Macadam\x92 motion for preliminary injunction December , . December , , Macadam filed for Chapter Bankruptcy the Northern District California, which placed stay the litigation Macadam only. The Company filed claim the bankruptcy proceedings February , . The Macadam bankruptcy case was converted Chapter (liquidation) April , . The Company has reached settlement the Macadam case with the Chapter Bankruptcy Trustee. The Bankruptcy Court approved the settlement July , over the objection Tom Santos, MacAdam\x92 principal. Santos has appealed the ruling approving the settlement. December , , Tom Santos, who was original plaintiff the Macadam case, filed Fifth Amended Complaint his own behalf (not behalf Macadam) alleging fraud, violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising) and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act. The Company filed demurrer Santos\x92 amended complaint and special motion strike the defamation cause action January , . Those motions were heard February , , and the Court sustained the demurrer without leave amend one cause action, overruled the demurrer one cause action and sustained the demurrer with leave amend two causes action. The Court also denied the special motion strike. Santos filed further amended complaint July , . The Company filed demurrer, which was granted September , . Santos filed amended complaint. The Company filed motion strike, which was granted part and denied part December , . The Company also filed cross complaint against Santos January , alleging violations California Business & Professions Code § and California Penal Code § , fraud and deceit, and breach contract. Macsolutions, Inc. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Macsolutions, Inc., former Apple authorized reseller, filed this lawsuit against the Company January , alleging breach contract, fraud, misappropriation trade secrets, intentional interference with economic advantage, violation the Cartwright Act, violation California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and fraudulent concealment. The factual allegations this complaint are similar those the eight other reseller cases and the Branning class action. Principally, Plaintiffs allege that the Company treated Macsolutions unfairly compared other resellers, that the Company has competed unfairly opening the Apple retail stores, and has allegedly sold used goods new. Macsolutions filed amended complaint June , , adding Tech Data Corporation SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' defendant. The Company filed answer July , generally denying all allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The case discovery. The case set for trial June , . PhatRat Technology LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff PhatRat Technology LLC filed this action October , the United States District Court for the District Colorado alleging infringement . Patent number , , entitled \x93System and Method for Determining Loft Time, Speed, Height and Distance,\x94 . Patent number , , entitled \x93Methods and Systems for Assessing Athletics Performance,\x94 . Patent number , , entitled \x93Mobile Speedometer Systems and Associated Methods,\x94 and . Patent number , , entitled \x93Systems and Methods for Determining Performance Data,\x94 well allowed . Patent Application number , entitled \x93Shoes Employing Monitoring Devices, and Associated Methods.\x94 Plaintiff asserts that the Nike+iPod products infringe these patents. The Company\x92 response the complaint not yet due. Premier International Associates LLC . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff Premier International Associates LLC filed this action November , the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas, Marshall Division, alleging infringement the Company . Patent numbers , , and , , both entitled \x93List Building System.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer January , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. The Company also asserted counter claims for declaratory judgment noninfringement and invalidity. Markman hearing set for May , and trial scheduled for December , . Quantum Technology Management, Ltd. . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this action December , the United States District Court for the District Maryland against the Company and Fingerworks, Ltd., alleging infringement . Patent number , , entitled \x93Time Domain Capacitive Field Detector.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. May , , Quantum filed amended complaint adding Cypress Semiconductor MicroSystems, Inc. defendant. July , , the Company filed answer denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses and also filed counterclaims for non-infringment and invalidity. November , Plaintiff filed reply the Company\x92 counterclaims and More Definite Statement. -Germain . Apple Canada, Inc. Plaintiff filed this case Montreal, Quebec, Canada, August , , seeking authorization institute class action for the refund the Company the Canadian Private Copying Levy that was applied the iPod purchase price Quebec between December , and December , but later declared invalid the Canadian Court. The Company has completed refund program for this levy. class certification hearing took place January , . February , , the Court granted class certification and notice was published during the last week March . Discovery closed and the case prepared for trial, which the Company anticipates will take place . Tse . Apple Computer, Inc. . Plaintiff Keung Tse filed this action against the Company and other defendants August , the United States District Court for the District Maryland alleging infringement the Company . Patent number , , entitled \x93Protection Software Again [sic] Against Unauthorized Use.\x94 The complaint seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company filed answer October , denying all material allegations and asserting numerous affirmative defenses. October , , the Company and the other defendants filed motion transfer the case the Northern District California, which was granted August , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Tucker . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action July , the United States District Court for the Northern District California alleging various claims including alleged unlawful tying music and videos purchased the iTunes Store with the purchase iPods and vice versa and unlawful acquisition maintenance monopoly market power. The complaint alleges violations §§ and the Sherman Act ( . §§ and ), California Business & Professions Code § seq. (the Cartwright Act), California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition), and the California Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. November , , the Company filed motion dismiss the complaint, which was heard November , . December , , the Court denied the motion dismiss. Union Federale des Consummateurs - Que Choisir . Apple Computer France . and iTunes . Plaintiff, consumer association France, filed this complaint February , alleging that the above-listed entities are violating consumer law ( ) omitting mention that the iPod allegedly not compatible with music from online music services other than the iTunes Store and that the music from the iTunes Store only compatible with the iPod and ( ) allegedly tying the sales iPods the iTunes Store and vice versa. Plaintiff seeks damages, injunctive relief and other relief. The first hearing the case took place May , . The Company\x92 response the complaint was served November , . Plaintiff\x92 responsive pleading was filed February , . The Company filed reply June , and UFC filed response September , . Vitt . Apple Computer, Inc. Plaintiff filed this purported class action November , the United States District Court for the Central District California behalf purported nationwide class all purchasers the iBook alleging that the computer\x92 logic board fails abnormally high rate. The complaint alleges violations California Business & Professions Code § (unfair competition) and California Business & Professions Code § (false advertising). Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other relief. The Company\x92 response the complaint not yet due. Vogel . Jobs . Plaintiff filed this purported class action August , , the United States District Court for the Northern District California against the Company and certain the Company\x92 current and former officers and directors alleging improper backdating stock option grants maximize certain defendants\x92 profits, failing properly account for those grants and issuing false financial statements. The lawsuit purports brought behalf all purchasers the Company\x92 stock from December , through August , , and asserts claims under Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act well control person claims. motion for appointment lead plaintiff and counsel was scheduled heard December , but was taken off calendar when the case was -assigned the Hon. Jeremy Fogel. The motion therefore still pending. Defendants\x92 responses the complaint are not yet due. Wimmer . Apple Computer, Inc. (originally filed Tomczak . Apple Computer, Inc. October , the United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division; amended complaint filed October , ); Moschella, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division); Calado, . . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , , Los Angeles County Superior Court); Kahan, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed October , , United States District Court for the Southern District New York); Jennings, ., . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed November , , United States District Court for the Northern District California, San Jose Division); Rappel . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed November , , United States District Court for the District New Jersey); Mayo . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , United States District Court for the Middle District Louisiana); Valencia . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , United States District Court for SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' the Northern District California); Williamson . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed December , , United States District Court for the Middle District Louisiana); Sioson . Apple Computer, Inc. (filed February , , San Mateo County Superior Court; First Amended Complaint filed March , ) These federal and state court complaints allege that the Company\x92 iPod nano was defectively designed that scratches excessively during normal use, rendering the screen unreadable. The federal actions were coordinated the United States District Court for the Northern District California and assigned the Hon. Ronald Whyte pursuant April , , order the Judicial Panel Multidistrict Litigation. Plaintiffs filed First Consolidated and Amended Master Complaint September , , alleging violations California and other states\x92 consumer protection and warranty laws and claiming unjust enrichment. The Master Complaint alleges two putative plaintiff classes: ( ) all . residents (excluding California residents) who purchased iPod nano that was not manufactured designed using processes necessary ensure normal resistance scratching the screen; and ( ) all iPod nano purchasers other than . residents who purchased iPod nano that was not manufactured designed using processes necessary ensure normal resistance scratching the screen. Pursuant stipulation, the Wimmer, Valencia, and Rappel federal complaints were dismissed without prejudice and the Mayo and Williamson complaints were administratively closed without prejudice. The Company answered the Master Complaint November , . The two California state actions were coordinated May , , and assigned the Hon. West Los Angeles Superior Court. Plaintiffs filed Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint June , , alleging violations California state consumer protection, unfair competition, false advertising, and warranty laws and claiming unjust enrichment. The Consolidated Complaint alleges putative plaintiff class all California residents who own iPod nano containing manufacturing defect that results the nano being susceptible excessive scratching. The Company answered the Consolidated Amended Complaint October , . Two similar complaints, Carpentier . Apple Canada, Inc. , and Royer-Brennan . Apple Computer, Inc. and Apple Canada, Inc. were filed Montreal, Quebec, Canada October , and November , , respectively, seeking authorization institute class actions behalf iPod nano purchasers Quebec. The Royer-Brennan file was stayed May favor the Carpentier file, which Apple\x92 preliminary motion for leave file evidence will heard December , . further dates have been set. similar complaint, Mund . Apple Canada Inc. and Apple Computer, Inc., was filed Ontario, Canada January , seeking authorization institute class action behalf iPod nano purchasers Canada. the two Quebec class actions, motion stay the Royer-Brennan case stayed favor the previously filed Carpentier case. the Ontario Action, Apple Canada Inc. and Apple Computer, Inc., have served Notices Intent defend. December , , plaintiff\x92 counsel advised that substitution attorneys will occur, most likely January . The file now stayed, and the Company\x92 motion examine petitioner and for leave file evidence certification will set after the new counsel appears. ", 'item 4. ': "Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\x92 fiscal year ended September , . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3635431452_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' PART ", 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant\x92 Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company\x92 common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AAPL and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest sales prices for the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market during each quarter the two most recent fiscal years. February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Fiscal price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Holders December , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company did not declare pay cash dividends either . The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, will retain any earnings for use the operation its business. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The description equity compensation plans required Regulation - , Item ( ) incorporated herein reference Part III, Item this Form - . Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. ', 'item 6. ': "Selected Financial Data The consolidated balance sheet September , and the consolidated statements operations for the fiscal years ended September , and September , have been restated set forth the Form - . The data for the consolidated balance sheets September , , and and the consolidated statements operations for the fiscal years ended September and have been restated reflect the impact the stock-based compensation adjustments, but such restated data have not been audited and derived from the books and records the Company. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Item , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x94 and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below. The information presented the following tables has been adjusted reflect the restatement the Company\x92 financial results, which more fully described the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' The Company has not amended its previously-filed Annual Reports Form - Quarterly Reports Form - for the periods affected this restatement. The financial information that has been previously filed otherwise reported for these periods superseded the information this Annual Report Form - , and the financial statements and related financial information contained such previously-filed reports should longer relied upon. Five fiscal years ended September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , , Diluted , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Long-term debt (including current maturities) $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ $ Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net gains before taxes related the Company\x92 non-current debt and equity investments $ million and $ million were recognized and , respectively. net loss before taxes related the Company\x92 non-current debt and equity investments $ million was recognized . Net charges related Company restructuring actions $ million, $ million, and $ million were recognized , , and , respectively. , settlement the Company\x92 forward stock purchase agreement resulted gain $ million. Net income during benefited $ million from the reversal certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets, including reductions valuation allowances. Favorable cumulative-effect type adjustments from the adoption new accounting standards, net taxes $ million was recognized . ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' ( ) The Selected Financial Data for and has been restated reflect adjustments related stock-based compensation expense and the associated tax impact further described the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item this Form - . result these adjustments, net income was reduced $ million and $ million for the years ended September , and September , , respectively follows: Fiscal Year Ended September , Fiscal Year Ended September , Reported Adjustments Restated Reported Adjustments Restated Net sales $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Cost sales , , , , Gross margin , ( ) , , ( ) , Total operating expenses , , , , Operating income (loss) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Income before accounting changes ( ) ( ) Cumulative effects accounting changes, net income taxes \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings (loss) per common share before accounting changes: Basic $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ", 'item 7. ': "Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Form - contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such \x93anticipates,\x94 \x93expects,\x94 \x93believes,\x94 \x93plans,\x94 \x93predicts,\x94 and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company\x92 actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed the subsection entitled \x93Risk Factors\x94 above. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references this report particular years quarters refer the Company\x92 fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters those fiscal years. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. The following information has been adjusted reflect the restatement the Company\x92 financial results, which more fully described the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . The net tax impact the adjustments, which amounted $ million , was recorded the Company its fourth quarter . The net tax impact the restatements the Company\x92 results operations amounted $ million and $ million and , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' respectively. The impact these adjustments was not significant the Company\x92 operating results, trends, liquidity for the annual quarterly periods , , and . Executive Overview The Company designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online distribution third-party music, audio books, music videos, short films, television shows, movies, and iPod games. The Company\x92 products and services include the Macintosh line desktop and notebook computers, the iPod line portable digital music players, the Xserve server and Xserve RAID storage products, portfolio consumer and professional software applications, the Mac operating system, the iTunes Store, portfolio peripherals that support and enhance the Macintosh and iPod product lines, and variety other service and support offerings. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh and iPod compatible products including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. further description the Company\x92 products may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading \x93Business.\x94 The Company believes that for both professionals and consumers the personal computer has become the center evolving digital lifestyle integrating and enhancing the utility advanced digital devices such the Company\x92 iPods, digital video and still cameras, televisions, and DVD players, cellular phones, personal digital assistants, and other consumer electronic devices. The attributes the personal computer that enable this functionality include high-quality user interface, easy access relatively inexpensive data storage, the ability run complex applications, and the ability connect easily wide variety other digital devices and the Internet. The Company the only participant the personal computer industry that controls the design and development the entire personal computer\x97from the hardware and operating system sophisticated applications. This, along with its products\x92 innovative industrial designs, intuitive ease- -use, built- graphics, multimedia and networking capabilities, uniquely positions the Company offer innovative integrated digital lifestyle solutions. The Company\x92 business strategy leverages its ability, through the design and development its own operating system, hardware, and many software applications and technologies, bring its customers around the world compelling new products and solutions with superior ease- -use, seamless integration, and innovative industrial design. The Company participates several highly competitive markets, including personal computers with its Macintosh line computers, consumer electronics with its iPod line portable digital music players, and distribution third-party digital content through its online iTunes Store. While the Company widely recognized innovator the personal computer and consumer electronic markets well leader the emerging market for distribution digital content, these are all highly competitive markets that are subject aggressive pricing and increased competition. remain competitive, the Company believes increased investment research and development (\x93 & \x94) and marketing and advertising necessary maintain and extend its position the markets where competes. The Company\x92 & spending focused delivering timely updates and enhancements its existing line personal computers, displays, operating systems, software applications, and portable digital music players; developing new digital lifestyle consumer and professional software applications; and investing new product areas such rack-mount servers, RAID storage systems, and wireless technologies. The Company also believes investment marketing and advertising programs critical increasing product and brand awareness. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' June , the Company announced its plan begin using Intel microprocessors its computers. During , the Company introduced new Intel-based models the MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini computers. The Company\x92 transition Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed August , and its transition for Xserve was completed November . The MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini feature Mac version Tiger, iLife \x91 , and the Company\x92 new translation technology, Rosetta, which allows most PowerPC-based Macintosh applications run Intel-based Macintosh computers. There are potential risks and uncertainties that may occur due this transition, which are further discussed Item under the heading \x93Risk Factors.\x94 The Company utilizes variety direct and indirect distribution channels. The Company believes sales its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware, software, and peripheral integration, demonstrate the unique digital lifestyle solutions that are available only Macintosh computers, and demonstrate the compatibility the Macintosh with the Windows platform and networks. The Company further believes providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting and retaining customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company has expanded and improved its distribution capabilities opening its own retail stores the . and internationally. The Company had stores open September , . The Company also staffs selected third-party stores with the Company\x92 own employees improve the buying experience through reseller channels. The Company has deployed Apple employees and contractors reseller locations around the world including the ., Europe, Japan, and Australia. The Company also sells customers directly through its online stores around the world. improve access the iPod product line, the Company has significantly expanded the number distribution points where iPods are sold. The iPod product line can purchased certain department stores, member-only warehouse stores, large retail chains, and specialty retail stores, well through the channels listed above. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles and the Company\x92 discussion and analysis its financial condition and results operations require the Company\x92 management make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company\x92 consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences may material. Management believes the Company\x92 critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, warranty costs, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. Management believes these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company\x92 financial condition and results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company\x92 senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, peripherals, digital content, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' standards, including American Institute Certified Public Accountants Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (\x93SAB\x94) . , Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped, and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable and all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs and incur incremental price protection obligations that could result additional reductions revenue the time such programs are offered. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeem such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which could have material adverse impact the Company\x92 results operations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors and resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\x92 direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. The allowance for doubtful accounts based management\x92 assessment the collectibility specific customer accounts and includes consideration the credit worthiness and financial condition those specific customers. The Company records allowance reduce the specific receivables the amount that reasonably believed collectible . The Company also records allowance for all other trade receivables based multiple factors including historical experience with bad debts, the general economic SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' environment, the financial condition the Company\x92 distribution channels, and the aging such receivables. there deterioration major customer\x92 financial condition, the Company becomes aware additional information related the credit worthiness major customer, future actual default rates trade receivables general differ from those currently anticipated, the Company may have adjust its allowance for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings the period the adjustments were made. Inventory Valuation and Inventory Purchase Commitments The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product shipments. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs detailed review inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component cost trends. The personal computer and consumer electronic industries are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. future demand market conditions for the Company\x92 products are less favorable than forecasted unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility component inventory, the Company may required record additional write-downs which would negatively affect gross margins the period when the write-downs were recorded. The Company accrues reserves for estimated cancellation fees related component orders that have been cancelled are expected cancelled. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. These commitments typically cover the Company\x92 requirements for periods ranging from days. there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company\x92 products unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company\x92 products, the Company may required record additional reserves for cancellation fees that would negatively affect gross margins the period when the cancellation fees are identified. Warranty Costs The Company provides currently for the estimated cost for hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. Each quarter, the Company reevaluates its estimates assess the adequacy its recorded warranty liabilities considering the size the installed base products subject warranty protection and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liability would required and could negatively affect the Company\x92 results operations. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and system software maintain the software\x92 compliance with specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty costs that are recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation accordance with SFAS . 123R. Under the provisions SFAS . 123R, stock-based compensation cost estimated the grant date based the award\x92 fair value calculated the Black-Scholes-Merton (\x93BSM\x94) option-pricing model and recognized expense ratably over the requisite service period. The BSM model requires various highly SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' judgmental assumptions including volatility, forfeiture rates, and expected option life. any the assumptions used the BSM model change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially the future from that recorded the current period. connection with the Company\x92 restatement its consolidated financial statements, the Company has applied judgment choosing whether revise measurement dates for prior option grants. Information regarding the restatement, including ranges possible additional stock-based compensation expense other measurement dates had been selected for certain grants, set forth the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences the reported results operations. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , the provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. the event that all part the net deferred tax assets are determined not realizable the future, adjustment the valuation allowance would charged earnings the period such determination made. Similarly, the Company subsequently realizes deferred tax assets that were previously determined unrealizable, the respective valuation allowance would reversed, resulting positive adjustment earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management\x92 expectations could have material impact the Company\x92 results operations and financial position. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36111332643_D11651_1583404\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Net Sales Net sales and Macintosh unit sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product follow (net sales millions and unit sales thousands): September , September , September , Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Europe net sales , % , % , Japan net sales , % % Retail net sales , % , % , Other Segments net sales ( ) , % % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Operating Segment: Americas Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Europe Macintosh unit sales , % , % Japan Macintosh unit sales ( )% % Retail Macintosh unit sales % % Other Segments Macintosh unit sales ( ) % % Total Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Net Sales Product: Desktops ( ) $ , ( )% $ , % $ , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Macintosh net sales , % , % , iPod , % , % , Other music related products and services ( ) , % % Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , ( )% , % Software, service, and other sales ( ) , % , % Total net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Unit Sales Product: Desktops ( ) , ( )% , % , Portables ( ) , % , % , Total Macintosh unit sales , % , % , Net sales per Macintosh unit sold ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , iPod unit sales , % , % , Net sales per iPod unit sold ( ) $ ( )% $ ( )% $ Notes: ( ) Other Segments include Asia Pacific and FileMaker. ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Mac Pro, Power Mac, and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, iBook, MacBook Pro, and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Store sales, iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system, application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. ( ) Derived dividing total Macintosh net sales total Macintosh unit sales. ( ) Derived dividing total iPod net sales total iPod unit sales. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Fiscal Year versus Net sales during increased % $ billion from . This increase was due part the fact that spanned weeks while spanned weeks. Several other factors contributed these increases including the following: · Net sales iPods increased $ billion % during compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million , which represents increase % from million iPod units sold . Strong iPod sales during reflected significant sales both the hard-drive based iPod that supports video, first introduced October and the iPod nano, introduced September , well continued expansion iPod distribution points. During , the net sales per iPod unit sold decreased % compared primarily due overall decrease average selling prices for all iPods well shift product mix the iPod nano. From the introduction the iPod through , the Company has sold approximately million iPods. · Macintosh net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Macintosh unit sales increased , units % during compared . These increases were mainly due strong demand for the Intel-based MacBook and MacBook Pro systems and reflect shift product mix portable products all the Company\x92 operating segments. Net sales and unit sales the Company\x92 portable products increased % and %, respectively, during compared . Macintosh desktop net sales and unit sales both decreased % during compared . The decrease sales the Company\x92 Macintosh desktops was due declines sales the Company\x92 professional-oriented desktop products. The Company believes the decline the Company\x92 professional-oriented desktop products was due customers delaying purchases such products anticipation the release the Intel-based Mac Pro, which did not begin shipping until August , and updated software applications capable running Intel-based Macintosh computers, and the trend toward portable computers. slight increase % during net sales per Macintosh unit sold was due shift mix higher-priced portable products, partially offset price reductions certain Macintosh systems. · Other music related products and services consists sales associated with the iTunes Store and iPod services and accessories. Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The increase was primarily due increased net sales from the iTunes Store and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories and services. The increase sales from the iTunes Store stemmed from significant growth . sales and the opening The iTunes Store Japan during August and Australia during October . The increased sales from the iTunes Store were also attributable the availability videos, television shows, and feature-length movie downloads. · Net sales software, service, and other sales increased $ million % during compared . The growth was primarily attributable increased net sales AppleCare Protection Plan (\x93APP\x94) extended service and support contracts and application software, partially offset decrease sales Mac . Mac sales were particularly high due the release Mac Tiger April . Offsetting the favorable factors discussed above, the Company\x92 net sales during were negatively impacted the following: · Net sales peripherals and other hardware declined $ million % compared primarily due price decreases and decrease net sales displays relating shift mix from desktop portable systems. The decrease net sales displays for consistent with the overall decrease unit sales Macintosh professional desktop systems. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Fiscal Year versus During , net sales increased % $ billion from . Several factors contributed favorably net sales during : · Net sales iPods rose $ billion % during compared . Unit sales iPods totaled million , which represented increase % from the million iPod units sold . Strong sales iPods during were experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments and was driven strong demand for the iPod shuffle introduced January , the release updated version the iPod mini February , the release the iPod nano September , and expansion the iPod\x92 distribution network . Net sales per iPod unit sold decreased % primarily due the introduction the lower priced iPod shuffle January and iPod mini pricing reductions February . From the introduction the iPod through , the Company had sold approximately million iPods. · Net sales other music related products and services increased $ million % during compared . The Company experienced strong growth sales iPod services and accessories consistent with the increase overall iPod unit sales for . The increased sales from the iTunes Store were primarily due substantial growth net sales the . and expansion Europe, Canada, and Japan. · Total Macintosh net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Unit sales Macintosh systems increased million units % during compared . The increases Macintosh net sales and unit sales related primarily strong demand for the Company\x92 desktop products, which was experienced all the Company\x92 operating segments. The Company believes that the success the iPod had positive impact Macintosh net sales introducing new customers the Company\x92 other products. Desktop demand was stimulated due the iMac and the introduction the Mac mini January . Net sales and unit sales desktop products increased % and %, respectively, during compared . Macintosh net sales and unit sales also included sales the Company\x92 portable products, which increased % and %, respectively, compared . Net sales per Macintosh unit sold decreased % year-over-year basis. The decrease was the result changes the overall unit mix towards relatively lower-priced consumer products, specifically the impact the Mac mini product, and desktop and portable price reductions. This decrease was partially offset increase the proportion direct sales. · Net sales peripherals and other hardware rose % during compared primarily due increase net sales displays and other computer accessories. Net sales other hardware include AirPort cards and base stations, Xserve RAID storage, iSight digital video cameras, and third-party hardware products. · Net sales software, service and other sales rose $ million % during compared . This growth was primarily attributable increased net sales APP extended service and support contracts, driven primarily higher associated Macintosh computer sales. Additionally, the Company experienced increases net sales Mac Internet service, professional and consumer applications, third-party software, and Mac that was primarily attributable the release version Tiger April . Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operated Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . during . Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company\x92 operating segments may found Note , \x93Segment Information and Geographic Data\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Americas During , net sales the Americas segment increased $ billion, %, compared . The main factors for this increase were significant increases net sales iPods, other music related products and services, Macintosh portable systems, and APP. Sales iPods increased primarily due the introduction the updated iPod with video-playing capabilities October and the iPod nano during September . The increase other music related products and services was due increases sales Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories and sales from the iTunes Store. The increase sales Macintosh portable systems the Americas was due strong sales the Intel-based MacBook and MacBook Pro during . The overall increase net sales was partially offset decline net sales desktops, displays, and Mac . The decrease desktop products and displays net sales reflects the overall shift product mix toward portable Macintosh systems. Mac sales decreased from since the Company has not released new version Mac since Tiger began shipping April . During , the Americas segment represented approximately % the Company\x92 total net sales compared % the same period . During , . education channel net sales and Macintosh unit sales increased % and %, respectively, compared . Net sales from the higher education market grew % during compared due strong sales Macintosh portable products and iPods. Net sales were relatively flat for - due continued budget constraints. During , net sales the Americas segment grew % $ billion compared . The increase net sales during was primarily attributable the significant year-over-year increase iPod sales, sales other music related products and services, and strong sales desktop and portable Macintosh systems. This increase was partially offset shift sales the Retail segment, which had stores the . and Canada the end . Macintosh unit sales also increased % compared , driven primarily strong sales desktop systems largely attributable strong sales from the updated iMac, which began shipping September , and the Mac mini, which was introduced January . During and , the Americas segment represented approximately % and %, respectively, the Company\x92 total net sales and represented approximately % and %, respectively, total Macintosh unit sales. The Company experienced increase both . education channel net sales and unit sales % for compared . Strength higher education sales related primarily strong iMac and portable system shipments. This strength drove year-over-year growth net sales % for the higher education channel during . Despite challenges the - market from continued budget constraints and competitive pressures, the Company\x92 - net sales grew year-over-year % during due increased iBook sales and : education sales. Europe Europe segment net sales increased $ billion % during compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, these increases were result strong growth iPod sales, other music related products and services, and Macintosh portable systems. Sales iPods increased primarily due the introduction the updated iPod with video-playing capabilities October and the iPod nano during September . The increase other music related products and services was due increases sales Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories and sales from the iTunes Store. The increase sales portable systems Europe was due strong sales the Intel-based MacBook and MacBook Pro that were introduced during . addition, Europe also reported increased sales APP related the increase Macintosh unit sales. These increases were partially offset decrease desktop and SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Mac net sales during compared . The decrease desktop net sales was due the shift product mix toward portable Macintosh systems. Mac sales have decreased from since the Company has not released new version Mac since Tiger began shipping April . During , net sales the Europe segment grew $ billion % from . Total Macintosh unit sales Europe also experienced growth during the current year increasing % compared . Consistent with the Americas segment, Europe experienced strong net sales desktop products, iPod, other music related products and services, and software and service sales. Demand Europe during was particularly strong for the Company\x92 desktop computers, which experienced year-over-year increase % from . Similar the results the Company\x92 other segments, net sales iPods, peripherals and software were strong . Japan Japan\x92 net sales increased $ million % during compared . The Japan segment experienced increased net sales iPods, Macintosh portable products, and other music related products and services. Consistent with the Company\x92 other segments, Japan experienced increases sales iPods due the introduction the iPod with video-playing capabilities and the iPod nano October and September , respectively. Japan also experienced strong sales the Intel-based MacBook and increased sales from the iTunes Store. These increases were partially offset decreases net sales Macintosh desktop products, displays, and Mac . The decreases desktop products and displays reflect the overall shift product mix toward portable Macintosh systems. Mac sales have decreased from since the Company has not released new version Mac since Tiger began shipping April . Total Macintosh unit sales during remained relatively flat compared . The relatively flat growth Macintosh unit sales partially attributable Japan\x92 overall slow consumer market growth. The Company continuing evaluate ways improve its indirect and direct channel sales Japan. Japan\x92 net sales and Macintosh unit sales were % and %, respectively, during compared . Japan experienced increased net sales desktop products, iPod, and other music related products and services. Desktop net sales and unit sales increased % and %, respectively, and iPod sales increased % during compared . The overall increase net sales was partially offset decline portable system net sales during compared , which the Company believes might have been attributable shift sales from portables the iMac and Mac mini, and shift the Retail segment result opening two additional stores Japan during . Retail The Company opened new retail stores during , including total international stores the ., Japan, and Canada, bringing the total number open stores September , . This compares open stores September , and open stores September , . The Retail segment\x92 net sales increased % $ billion during compared . Retail segment Macintosh unit sales increased % during compared . With average stores open during , average revenue per store increased $ million compared $ million during and $ million . The current year increase was primarily due strong sales Macintosh portable and desktop products, iPods, and other music related products and services. Sales iPods increased primarily due the introduction the updated iPod with video-playing capabilities October and the iPod nano during September . The increase other music related products and services was due increased sales Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. Macintosh portable and desktop sales increased due strong sales the Intel-based MacBook, MacBook Pro, and iMac. measured the Company\x92 operating segment reporting, the Retail segment reported operating income $ million during compared operating income $ million during and SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' operating income $ million during . This improvement was primarily attributable the impact opening new stores and the segment\x92 year-over-year increase average revenue per store, which resulted higher leverage occupancy, depreciation, and other fixed costs. Expansion the Retail segment has required and will continue require substantial investment fixed assets and related infrastructure, operating lease commitments, personnel, and other operating expenses. Capital expenditures associated with the Retail segment were $ million , bringing the total capital expenditures since inception the Retail segment approximately $ million. September , , the Retail segment had approximately , employees and had outstanding operating lease commitments associated with retail store space and related facilities approximately $ million. The Company would incur substantial costs were close its retail stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company\x92 results operations and financial condition. Gross Margin Gross margin for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except gross margin percentages): September , September , September , Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Gross margin percentage % remained flat compared . The Company experienced more favorable pricing certain commodity components including LCD flat-panel displays and DRAM memory and higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage fixed production costs, offset increase lower margin iPod sales and other music-related services. The Company anticipates that its gross margin and the gross margins the personal computer and consumer electronics industries will under pressure due price competition. The Company expects gross margin percentage decline sequentially the first quarter primarily result shift the mix revenue toward lower margin products such the iPod and content from the iTunes Store. The foregoing statements regarding the Company\x92 expected gross margin percentage are forward-looking. There can assurance that current gross margin percentage will maintained targeted gross margin percentage levels will achieved. general, gross margins and margins individual products, including iPods, will remain under significant downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, potential increases the cost and availability raw material and outside manufacturing services, and potential changes the Company\x92 product mix, including higher unit sales consumer products with lower average selling prices and lower gross margins. response these competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take pricing actions with respect its products. Gross margins could also affected the Company\x92 ability effectively manage product quality and warranty costs and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company\x92 significant international operations, financial results can significantly affected the short-term fluctuations exchange rates. The Company orders components for its products and builds inventory advance product shipments. Because the Company\x92 markets are volatile and subject rapid technology and price changes, there SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce order from third-parties excess insufficient inventories particular products components. The Company\x92 operating results and financial condition the past have been and may the future materially adversely affected the Company\x92 ability manage its inventory levels and outstanding purchase commitments and respond short-term shifts customer demand patterns. Gross margin percentage increased % net sales from % net sales . The Company\x92 gross margin during increased due more favorable pricing certain commodity components including LCD flat-panel displays and DRAM memory; increase higher margin software sales; favorable shift direct sales related primarily the Company\x92 retail and online stores; and higher overall revenue that provided for more leverage fixed production costs. These increases gross margin were partially offset increase lower margin iPod sales. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions, except for percentages): September , September , September , Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Research and development $ $ $ Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general, and administrative expenses $ , $ , $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ \x97 $ \x97 $ ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . Research and Development ( & ) Expenditures for & increased % $ million $ million compared $ million . The increase was due primarily increase & headcount the current year support expanded & activities, increase $ million stock-based compensation recognized & expense resulting from the adoption SFAS . 123R, and higher overall expenses due the 14th week added the first fiscal quarter realign the Company\x92 fiscal quarters with calendar quarters . addition, during , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with the development Mac Tiger. software development costs were capitalized during . Further information related the Company\x92 capitalization software development costs may found Part , Item this Form - Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Despite the increase expenditures, & percentage net sales remained relatively flat compared due the significant increase revenue. The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace and are directly related timely development new and enhanced products that are central the Company\x92 core business strategy. such, the Company expects make further investments & remain competitive. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense ( & ) Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases are due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, increase $ million stock-based compensation expense recognized SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' & expense resulting from the adoption SFAS . 123R, current year increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary merit increases, and the expenses associated with the 14th week added the first fiscal quarter . Despite the increase expenditures, & percentage total net sales remained flat compared . Expenditures for & increased $ million % during compared . These increases are due primarily the Company\x92 continued expansion its Retail segment both domestic and international markets, current year increase discretionary spending marketing and advertising, and higher direct and channel selling expenses resulting from the increase net sales and employee salary merit increases. & percentage total net sales was %, down from % , which due the increase total net sales % for the Company during . Fiscal Restructuring Actions During , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million, including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million for lease cancellations. The lease cancellations relate vacating leased sales facility result European workforce reduction during . the $ million charges, $ million had been utilized the end , with the remainder consisting $ million for lease cancellations. These actions resulted the termination positions. Other Income and Expense Other income and expense for each the last three fiscal years are follows ( millions): September , September , September , Gains non-current investments, net $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense \x97 \x97 ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Interest and other income, net $ $ $ Total other income and expense $ $ $ Gains and Losses Non-current Investments The Company previously held significant investments ARM Holdings plc (ARM), Akamai Technologies, Inc. (Akamai), and EarthLink Network, Inc. (EarthLink). Company sold all the remaining holdings these non-current investments and . Pretax gains recorded upon the sale these non-current investments were $ million . Interest and Other Income, Net Total interest and other income, net increased $ million % $ million during compared $ million and $ million . These increases are attributable primarily higher cash and short-term investment balances and increasing investment yields resulting from higher market interest rates and the 14th week added the first fiscal quarter . The weighted average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased % compared the % and % rates earned during and , respectively. The current year increase other income was partially offset higher foreign currency hedging expenses. Interest expense consisted primarily interest the Company\x92 $ million aggregate principal amount unsecured notes, which were repaid upon their maturity February . The unsecured notes SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' were sold % par for effective yield maturity %. Total deferred gain resulting from the closure debt swaps approximately $ million was fully amortized the notes\x92 maturity February . Provision for Income Taxes The Company\x92 effective tax rate for the year ended September , was approximately %. The Company\x92 effective rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings for which . taxes are provided because such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . addition, the Company recorded tax benefit $ million due settlement prior year tax audits the ., and net benefit $ million resulting from the dividend repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act (\x93AJCA\x94) and international tax planning strategies associated with the repatriation further discussed below. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits $ million before being offset against certain deferred liabilities and valuation allowance for presentation the Company\x92 balance sheet. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. September , and September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits state operating losses that may not realized. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability the deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and amount the valuation allowance. October , , the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA included provision for the deduction % certain foreign earnings that were repatriated, defined the AJCA, within specified time frame. Among other requirements, dividends qualifying for the % deduction must reinvested the United States certain qualified investments pursuant domestic reinvestment plan approved the CEO and Board Directors. During , the Company repatriated approximately $ billion foreign earnings. the earnings repatriated, $ million eligible for the reduced tax rate provided the AJCA. Accordingly, the Company recorded tax charge $ million related the repatriation foreign earnings under the provisions the AJCA. addition, the Company recorded tax benefit $ million resulting from the implementation tax planning strategies recognize deferred tax assets that were previously not recognizable within certain foreign subsidiaries. The Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) has substantially completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company intends contest certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. addition, the Company subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36132121773_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Quarterly Financial Information The following tables set forth summary the Company\x92 quarterly financial information for each the four quarters the years ended September , and September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Cost sales ( ) , , , , Gross margin , , , , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ $ $ Research and development $ $ $ $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ The net tax impact the stock-based compensation adjustments , which amounted $ million, was recorded the Company its fourth quarter and are described the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\360214328473_P66536CHE_1582168\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' SET mrlHTMLTableCenter Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Cost sales ( ) , , , , Gross margin , , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ \x97 $ $ Research and development $ $ $ $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ The impact the stock-based compensation adjustments described the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - was not significant the interim balance sheets and . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\360214328473_P66536CHE_1582168\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' The following tables present the effects adjustments made the Company\x92 previously reported quarterly financial information during ( millions, except per share amounts): Three Months Ended September , Three Months Ended June , Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Net sales $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Cost sales ( ) , \x97 , , \x97 , Gross margin , \x97 , , \x97 , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) \x97 \x97 Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income ( ) ( ) Other income and expense \x97 \x97 Income before provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes \x97 Net income $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ $ $ \x97 $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , \x97 , , \x97 , Diluted , , , , ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Research and development $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203155890_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Three Months Ended March , Three Months Ended December , Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Net sales $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Cost sales ( ) , \x97 , , , Gross margin \x97 ( ) Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) \x97 Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income ( ) ( ) Other income and expense \x97 \x97 Income before provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes \x97 ( ) Net income $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Diluted $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , \x97 , , \x97 , Diluted , , , , ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ $ Research and development $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ $ $ Recent Accounting Pronouncements September , the SEC issued SAB . , Considering the Effects Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements Current Year Financial Statements. SAB . provides guidance how prior year misstatements should considered when quantifying misstatements current year financial statements for purposes determining whether the current year\x92 financial statements are materially misstated. SAB . effective for fiscal years ending after November , . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SAB . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. September , the FASB issued SFAS . , Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, provides framework for measuring fair value, and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements. SFAS . applies other accounting pronouncements that require fair value measurements; does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS . effective for fiscal years beginning after November , and required adopted the Company beginning the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203155890_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. June , the FASB issued FASB Interpretation . (\x93FIN\x94) , Accounting for Uncertainty Income Taxes- Interpretation FASB Statement . . FIN . clarifies the accounting for uncertainty income taxes creating framework for how companies should recognize, measure, present, and disclose their financial statements uncertain tax positions that they have taken expect take tax return. FIN . effective for fiscal years beginning after December , and required adopted the Company beginning the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application FIN . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. May , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which replaces APB Opinion . , Accounting Changes and SFAS . , Reporting Accounting Changes Interim Financial Statements\x97 Amendment APB Opinion . . SFAS . requires retrospective application prior periods\x92 financial statements voluntary change accounting principal unless not practicable. SFAS . effective for accounting changes and corrections errors made fiscal years beginning after December , and required adopted the Company the first quarter fiscal . Although the Company will continue evaluate the application SFAS . , management does not currently believe adoption will have material impact the Company\x92 results operations financial position. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics for each the last three fiscal years (dollars millions): September , September , September , Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , $ , Accounts receivable, net $ , $ $ Inventory $ $ $ Working capital $ , $ , $ , Days sales accounts receivable (DSO) ( ) Days supply inventory ( ) Days payables outstanding (DPO) ( ) Annual operating cash flow $ , $ , $ ( ) See the \x93Explanatory Note\x94 immediately preceding Part , Item and Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - . ( ) DSO based ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly net sales for each period. ( ) Days supply inventory based ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost sales for each period. ( ) DPO based ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost sales adjusted for the change inventory. September , , the Company had $ billion cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, increase $ billion over the same balances the end . The principal SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203155890_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' components this increase were cash generated operating activities $ billion, proceeds $ million from the issuance common stock under stock plans, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation $ million, partially offset cash used purchase property, plant, and equipment $ million and repurchases common stock $ million conjunction with net-share settlements vested restricted stock and restricted stock units. Cash generated from operating activities includes the impact the $ billion prepayment for NAND flash memory components. The Company\x92 short-term investment portfolio primarily invested high credit quality, liquid investments. September , , approximately $ billion the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchase activity, outstanding commitments, and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. Capital Expenditures The Company\x92 total capital expenditures were $ million during , consisting $ million for retail store facilities and equipment related the Company\x92 Retail segment, $ million for real estate acquisitions for the Company\x92 second corporate campus and for new data center , and $ million for corporate infrastructure, including information systems enhancements. The Company currently anticipates will utilize approximately $ million for capital expenditures during , including approximately $ million for expansion the Company\x92 Retail segment, approximately $ million for real estate acquisitions including the Company\x92 second corporate campus and its new data center, and approximately $ million support normal replacement existing capital assets and enhancements general information technology infrastructure. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. The Company has repurchased total million shares cost $ million under this plan and was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company. The following table presents certain payments due the Company under contractual obligations with minimum firm commitments September , and excludes amounts already recorded the Company\x92 balance sheet current liabilities ( millions): Total Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Operating Leases $ , $ $ $ $ Purchase Obligations , , \x97 \x97 \x97 Asset Retirement Obligations Other Obligations \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ , $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203155890_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Lease Commitments September , , the Company had total outstanding commitments noncancelable operating leases approximately $ billion, $ million which related the lease retail space and related facilities. Lease terms the Company\x92 existing major facility operating leases range from years. Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Component Suppliers The Company utilizes several contract manufacturers manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company\x92 products and perform final assembly and test finished products. These contract manufacturers acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods ranging from days. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. Consistent with industry practice, the Company acquires components through combination purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company\x92 forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from days. September , , the Company had outstanding third-party manufacturing commitments and component purchase commitments approximately $ billion. During , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these agreements, the Company prepaid $ billion for flash memory components during . These prepayments will applied inventory purchases made over the life each respective agreement. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company\x92 asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. September , , the Company estimates that gross expected future cash flows approximately $ million will required fulfill these obligations. Other Obligations The Company\x92 other obligations approximately $ million are primarily related Internet and telecommunications services. Indemnifications The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203155890_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' ", 'item 7a. ': "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and its interest rate swap and option positions, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate related exposures. However, given the effective horizons the Company\x92 risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. addition, the timing the accounting for recognition gains and losses related mark- -market instruments for any given period may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company\x92 operating results and financial position. Interest Rate Risk While the Company exposed interest rate fluctuations many the world\x92 leading industrialized countries, the Company\x92 interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well costs associated with foreign currency hedges. The Company\x92 short-term investment policy and strategy ensure the preservation capital, meet liquidity requirements, and optimize return light the current credit and interest rate environment. portion the Company\x92 cash managed external managers within the guidelines the Company\x92 investment policy and objective market benchmark. The Company\x92 internal portfolio benchmarked against external manager performance, allowing for differences liquidity needs. The Company\x92 exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily the Company\x92 investment portfolio. The Company places its short-term investments highly liquid securities issued high credit quality issuers and, policy, limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The Company\x92 general policy limit the risk principal loss and ensure the safety invested funds limiting market and credit risk. All highly liquid investments with initial maturities three months less are classified cash equivalents; highly liquid investments with initial maturities greater than three months are classified short-term investments. September , , approximately $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. September , , $ million the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remainder all had underlying maturities less than months. The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration for duration management. The Company recognized net losses before taxes $ , and $ , and , respectively, and net gain before taxes $ million result such sales. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ million decline the fair market value the portfolio. September , , similar basis point shift the yield curve would have resulted $ million decline fair value. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3567451548_P66538CHE_1576465\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver foreign currencies. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, may negatively affect the Company\x92 net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There also risk the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, and limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company\x92 foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (\x93VAR\x94) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate , random market price paths. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company\x92 foreign exchange portfolio due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. The model assumes normal market conditions. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, losses incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company\x92 investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the changes the timing and amount interest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates, and the Company\x92 actual exposures and positions. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3567451548_P66538CHE_1576465\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' ", 'item 8. ': "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data SET mrlNoTableShading Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36022327418_P66536CHE_1582248\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except share amounts) September , September , Restated( ) ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , Inventories Deferred tax assets Other current assets , Total current assets , , Property, plant, and equipment, net , Goodwill Acquired intangible assets, net Other assets , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Deferred stock compensation \x97 ( ) Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income \x97 Total shareholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , $ , ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO='',FILE=' :\\ \\35672147270_P66532CHE_1576529\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except share and per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales ( ) , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) Selling, general, and administrative ( ) , , , Restructuring costs \x97 \x97 Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes , , Provision for income taxes Net income $ , $ , $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development $ $ $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3567225827_P66532CHE_1576529\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY ( millions, except share amounts which are thousands) Accumulated Other Total Common Stock Deferred Stock Retained Comprehensive Shareholders\x92 Shares Amount Compensation Earnings Income (Loss) Equity Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Balances September , previously reported , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Adjustments opening shareholders\x92 equity \x97 ( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , restated , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Change unrealized loss derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income Issuance stock-based compensation awards \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Adjustment common stock related prior year acquisition ( ) ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total comprehensive income , Issuance stock-based compensation awards \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock options \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ \x97 $ , Components comprehensive income: Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change foreign currency translation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized gain available-for-sale securities, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Change unrealized loss derivative investments, net tax \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) ( ) Total comprehensive income , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) Stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Deferred compensation \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 \x97 Common stock issued under stock plans , \x97 \x97 \x97 Tax benefit related stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Balances September , , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ $ , ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3613444253_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Three fiscal years ended September , Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating Activities: Net income , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and accretion Stock-based compensation expense Provision for deferred income taxes Excess tax benefits from stock options \x97 Gain sale PowerSchool net assets ( ) \x97 \x97 Loss disposition property, plant, and equipment Gains sales investments, net \x97 \x97 ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( ) ( ) ( ) Inventories ( ) ( ) ( ) Other current assets ( , ) ( ) ( ) Other assets ( , ) ( ) ( ) Accounts payable , Other liabilities , Cash generated operating activities , , Investing Activities: Purchases short-term investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities short-term investments , , , Proceeds from sales investments , Purchases long-term investments ( ) \x97 \x97 Proceeds from sale PowerSchool net assets \x97 \x97 Purchases property, plant, and equipment ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) ( ) Cash generated (used for) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) Financing Activities: Payment long-term debt \x97 \x97 ( ) Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 Repurchases common stock ( ) \x97 \x97 Cash generated financing activities Increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , ( ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for interest $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Cash paid (received) for income taxes, net $ $ $ ( ) ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements,\x94 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36134644572_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Computer, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the Company) designs, manufactures, and markets personal computers and related software, services, peripherals, and networking solutions. The Company also designs, develops, and markets line portable digital music players along with related accessories and services including the online sale third-party audio and video products. The Company sells its products worldwide through its online stores, its retail stores, its direct sales force, and third-party wholesalers, resellers, and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Macintosh and iPod compatible products including application software, printers, storage devices, speakers, headphones, and various other accessories and supplies through its online and retail stores. The Company sells education, consumer, creative professional, business, and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior year amounts the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Typically, the Company\x92 fiscal year ends the last Saturday September. Fiscal years and were each -week years. However, approximately every six years, the Company reports -week fiscal year align its fiscal quarters with calendar quarters adding week its first fiscal quarter. The Company added this additional week the first fiscal quarter its fiscal year . All information presented herein based the Company\x92 fiscal calendar. Common Stock Split February , , the Company effected two-for-one stock split shareholders record February , . All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted reflect the stock split. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities greater than three months the date purchase are classified short-term investments. The Company\x92 debt and marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments debt and marketable equity securities the time purchase and reevaluates the available-for-sale designations each balance sheet date. These securities are carried fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component shareholders\x92 equity. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. Derivatives that are not defined hedges Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, amended, must adjusted fair value through earnings. the derivative hedge, depending the nature the hedge, SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) changes fair value will either offset against the change fair value the hedged assets, liabilities, firm commitments through earnings, recognized other comprehensive income until the hedged item recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component accumulated other comprehensive income shareholders\x92 equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument recognized current earnings. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item attributable the hedged risk are recognized earnings the current period. The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument that designated economic hedge the foreign currency translation exposure the net investment foreign operation reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this component are recognized current earnings. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. The Company\x92 inventories consist primarily finished goods for all periods presented. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building, years for equipment, and the shorter lease terms years for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from years. Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ million, $ million, and $ million during , , and , respectively. Asset Retirement Obligations The Company records obligations associated with the retirement tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations . The Company reviews legal obligations associated with the retirement long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal use the assets. determined that legal obligation exists, the fair value the liability for asset retirement obligation recognized the period which incurred reasonable estimate fair value can made. The fair value the liability added the carrying amount the associated asset and this additional carrying amount depreciated over the life the asset. The difference between the gross expected future cash flow and its SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) present value accreted over the life the related lease operating expense. All the Company\x92 existing asset retirement obligations are associated with commitments return property subject operating leases original condition upon lease termination. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 asset retirement liabilities for fiscal and ( millions): Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Additional asset retirement obligations recognized Accretion recognized Asset retirement liability September , $ Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill, for impairment accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for the Impairment Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets Disposed . Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison its carrying amount future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant, and equipment and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the assets exceeds its fair market value. For the three fiscal years ended September , , the Company had material impairment its long-lived assets, except for the impairment certain assets connection with the restructuring actions described Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not amortized but rather tested for impairment least annually sooner whenever events changes circumstances indicate that they may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill impairment tests about August each year. The Company did not recognize any goodwill intangible asset impairment charges , , . The Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. SFAS . also requires that intangible assets with definite lives amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment accordance with SFAS . . The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. Foreign Currency Translation The Company translates the assets and liabilities its international non- . functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are credited charged foreign currency translation SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) included \x93accumulated other comprehensive income\x94 shareholders\x92 equity. The Company\x92 foreign manufacturing subsidiaries and certain other international subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property, and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Gains and losses from these translations were insignificant and have been included the Company\x92 results operations. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, peripherals, digital content, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue pursuant applicable accounting standards, including American Institute Certified Public Accountants Statement Position (\x93SOP\x94) . - , Software Revenue Recognition , amended, and Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94) Staff Accounting Bulletin (\x93SAB\x94) . , Revenue Recognition . The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable, and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title and risk loss have been transferred. For most the Company\x92 product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company legally retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. the outset arrangement the Company determines the arrangement fee not, presumed not , fixed determinable, revenue deferred and subsequently recognized amounts become due and payable. Revenue from service and support contracts deferred and recognized ratably over the service coverage periods. These contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources, diagnostic tools, and extend the service coverage offered under the Company\x92 one-year limited warranty. The Company sells software and peripheral products obtained from other companies. The Company establishes its own pricing and retains related inventory risk, the primary obligor sales transactions with its customers, and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue for the sale products obtained from other companies based the gross amount billed. Revenue arrangements that include multiple elements such hardware, software, and services allocated each element based the relative fair value each element. Each element\x92 allocated revenue recognized when revenue recognition criteria for that element have been met. Fair value generally determined vendor specific objective evidence (\x93VSOE\x94), which based the price charged when each element sold separately. the Company cannot objectively determine the fair value any undelivered element included multiple-element arrangement, the Company defers revenue until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, until fair value can objectively determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value delivered element has not been established, the Company uses the residual method recognize revenue the fair value all undelivered elements determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value the undelivered elements deferred and the remaining portion the arrangement fee allocated the delivered elements and recognized revenue. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and for customer incentive programs, including reseller and end-user rebates, and other sales programs and volume-based incentives. The estimated cost these programs accrued reduction revenue the period the Company has sold the product and committed plan. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company\x92 historical experience. Generally, the Company does not offer specified unspecified upgrade rights its customers connection with software sales the sale extended warranty and support contracts. When the Company does offer specified upgrade rights, the Company defers revenue for the fair value the specified upgrade right until the future obligation fulfilled when the right the specified upgrade expires. Additionally, limited number the Company\x92 software products are available with maintenance agreements that grant customers rights unspecified future upgrades over the maintenance term when and available basis. Revenue associated with such maintenance recognized ratably over the maintenance term. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company\x92 customers, current economic conditions, and other factors that may affect customers\x92 ability pay. Shipping Costs For all periods presented, amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company\x92 shipping and handling costs are included cost sales. Warranty Expense The Company provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the time the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Software Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product\x92 technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers pursuant SFAS . , Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . most instances, the Company\x92 products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established. Therefore, costs incurred subsequent achievement technological feasibility are usually not significant, and generally all software development costs have been immediately expensed. , the Company began incurring substantial development costs associated with Mac version Tiger (\x93Tiger\x94) subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration August and the subsequent release developer beta version the product. The Company capitalized approximately $ million and $ million during and , respectively, costs associated with the development Tiger. accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset cost sales began April when the Company began shipping Tiger and being recognized straight-line basis over three-year estimated useful life. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) During , the Company incurred substantial development costs associated with FileMaker Pro subsequent achievement technological feasibility evidenced public demonstration and release developer beta version, and prior the release the final version the product March . Therefore, during , the Company capitalized approximately $ million costs associated with the development FileMaker Pro . accordance with SFAS . , amortization this asset cost sales began March when the Company began shipping FileMaker Pro and being recognized straight-line basis over three-year estimated useful life. Total amortization related capitalized software development costs was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. Stock-Based Compensation September , , the Company adopted SFAS . (revised ) (\x93SFAS . 123R\x94), Share-Based Payment , which addresses the accounting for stock-based payment transactions which enterprise receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the enterprise ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the enterprise\x92 equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. January , the SEC issued SAB . , which provides supplemental implementation guidance for SFAS . 123R. SFAS . 123R eliminates the ability account for stock-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under Accounting Principles Board (\x93APB\x94) Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and instead generally requires that such transactions accounted for using fair-value-based method. The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton (\x93BSM\x94) option-pricing model determine the fair-value stock-based awards under SFAS . 123R, consistent with that used for pro forma disclosures under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . The Company has elected use the modified prospective transition method permitted SFAS . 123R and accordingly prior periods have not been restated reflect the impact SFAS . 123R. The modified prospective transition method requires that stock-based compensation expense recorded for all new and unvested stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchase plan shares that are ultimately expected vest the requisite service rendered beginning September , , the first day the Company\x92 fiscal year . Stock-based compensation expense for awards granted prior September , based the grant-date fair-value determined under the pro forma provisions SFAS . . The Company recognized incremental stock-based compensation expense $ million during result the adoption SFAS . 123R. Diluted earnings per common share was reduced $ for the year ended September , due the adoption SFAS . 123R. accordance with SFAS . 123R, beginning the Company has presented excess tax benefits from the exercise stock-based compensation awards financing activity the consolidated statement cash flows. stock-based compensation costs have been capitalized September , . The income tax benefit related stock-based compensation expense was $ million for the year ended September , . September , , $ million total unrecognized compensation cost related stock options and restricted stock units expected recognized over weighted-average period years. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) SFAS . 123R prohibits recognition deferred tax asset for excess tax benefit that has not been realized. The Company will recognize benefit from stock-based compensation equity incremental tax benefit realized following the ordering provisions the tax law. addition, the Company accounts for the indirect effects stock-based compensation the research tax credit, the foreign tax credit, and the domestic manufacturing deduction through the income statement. Prior the adoption SFAS . 123R, the Company measured compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed APB Opinion . . The Company applied the disclosure provisions SFAS . amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure, the fair-value-based method had been applied measuring compensation expense. Under APB Opinion . , when the exercise price the Company\x92 employee stock options was equal the market price the underlying stock the date the grant, compensation expense was recognized. The following table illustrates the effect net income after taxes and net income per common share the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . stock-based compensation during and ( millions, except per share amounts): Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Net income $ , $ Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included reported net income, net tax Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method for all awards, net tax ( ) ( ) Net income\x97pro forma $ , $ Net income per common share Basic $ $ Diluted $ $ Net income per common share\x97pro forma Basic $ $ Diluted $ $ ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 Further information regarding stock-based compensation can found Note . Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per common share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the dilutive potential shares common stock had been issued. The dilutive effect outstanding options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Summary Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company\x92 common stock can result greater dilutive effect from outstanding options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units. Additionally, the exercise employee stock options and the vesting restricted stock and restricted stock units can result greater dilutive effect earnings per share. The following table sets forth the computation basic and diluted earnings per share: Three fiscal years ended September , Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Numerator ( millions): Net income $ , $ , $ Denominator ( thousands): Weighted-average shares outstanding, excluding unvested restricted stock , , , Effect dilutive options, restricted stock units and unvested restricted stock , , , Denominator for diluted earnings per share , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities representing approximately million, million ( restated( )), and million ( restated( )) shares common stock for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively, were excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share for these periods because their effect would have been antidilutive. These potentially dilutive securities include stock options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components: net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains, and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income comprised foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. Segment Information The Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. Information about the Company\x92 products, major customers, and geographic areas company-wide basis also disclosed. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36135542294_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements The Company restating its consolidated balance sheet September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the fiscal years ended September , and September , , and each the quarters fiscal year . Previously filed annual reports Form - and quarterly reports Form - affected the restatements have not been amended and should not relied . June , , the Company announced that internal review had discovered irregularities related the issuance certain stock option grants made between and , including grant its Chief Executive Officer (\x93CEO\x94) Steve Jobs. The Company also announced that Special Committee outside directors (\x93Special Committee\x94) had been formed and had hired independent counsel conduct full investigation the Company\x92 past stock option granting practices. result the internal review and the independent investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit and Finance Committee the Board Directors agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for certain stock option grants made prior periods. Therefore, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard past stock option grants, and the Company restating previously filed financial statements this Form - . These adjustments, after tax, amounted $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , and , respectively. The adjustment was recorded the fourth quarter fiscal year due its insignificance. The independent counsel and its forensic accountants (\x93Investigative Team\x94) reviewed the facts and circumstances surrounding stock option grants made dates. Based review the totality evidence and the applicable law, the Special Committee found misconduct current management. The Special Committee\x92 investigation identified number grants for which grant dates were intentionally selected order obtain favorable exercise prices. The terms these and certain other grants, discussed below, were finalized after the originally assigned grant dates. The Special Committee concluded that the procedures for granting, accounting for, and reporting stock option grants did not include sufficient safeguards prevent manipulation. Although the investigation found that CEO Steve Jobs was aware recommended the selection some favorable grant dates, did not receive financially benefit from these grants appreciate the accounting implications. The Special Committee also found that the investigation had raised serious concerns regarding the actions two former officers connection with the accounting, recording and reporting stock option grants. Based the evidence and findings from the Company\x92 internal review and the Special Committee\x92 independent investigation, analysis was performed the measurement dates for the , stock option grants made dates between October and January (the \x93relevant period\x94). The Company believes that the analysis was properly limited the relevant period. addition analyzing all grants made during the relevant period, the Company sampled certain grants between and and found none that required accounting adjustments. The first grants for which stock-based compensation expense required are dated December , . The Company also examined grants made after the relevant period and found none that required accounting adjustments. Moreover, the years after , Apple made significant changes its stock option granting practices response evolving legal, regulatory and accounting requirements. Consistent with the accounting literature and recent guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94), the grants during the relevant period were organized into categories based grant SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36273926549_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) type and process which the grant was finalized. The Company analyzed the evidence related each category grants including, but not limited , electronic and physical documents, document metadata, and witness interviews. Based the relevant facts and circumstances, the Company applied the controlling accounting standards determine, for every grant within each category, the proper measurement date. the measurement date not the originally assigned grant date, accounting adjustments were made required, resulting stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects. The , grants were classified follows: ( ) grants persons elected appointed the Board Directors (\x93director grants\x94); ( ) , grants employees under the Monday Tuesday Plan described below (\x93Monday Tuesday grants\x94); ( ) , grants made broad-based awards large numbers employees, usually annual basis (\x93focal grants\x94); ( ) , other grants ratified meetings the Board Compensation Committee (\x93meeting grants\x94); ( ) , other grants ratified unanimous written consent (\x93UWC\x94) the Board Compensation Committee (\x93other UWC grants\x94); and ( ) two grants the CEO (\x93CEO grants\x94). All references the number option shares, option exercise prices, and share prices this Note have not been adjusted for any subsequent stock splits. With the exception director grants, all stock option grants were subject ratification the Board Compensation Committee meeting UWC. Following approval the grants meeting UWC, the Company\x92 legal staff would prepare Secretary\x92 Certificate certifying the ratification the grants. Based the facts and circumstances described below, the Company has concluded that the recipients and terms certain grants were fixed for accounting purposes before ratification pursuant parameters previously approved the Board Compensation Committee through the Monday Tuesday Plan and the focal process. further discussed below, within these parameters, management had the authority determine the recipients and terms for each grant. Thus, the Company has concluded that the measurement dates for these grants occurred when management\x92 process for allocating these grants was completed and the grants were ready for ratification, which was considered perfunctory. With regard all other grants, the Company has concluded that the grants were finalized and the measurement dates occurred when the grants were ratified. For many grants, however, the dates ratification cannot established because the dates the UWCs were executed the Board Compensation Committee members received the Company are not available. For such grants, the Company has concluded that the date the preparation the Secretary\x92 Certificate the best alternative for determining the actual date ratification. discussed below, the Company\x92 analysis determined that the originally assigned grant dates for , grants dates are not the proper measurement dates. Accordingly, after accounting for forfeitures, the Company has recognized stock-based compensation expense $ million pre-tax basis over the respective awards\x92 vesting terms. adjustments were required for the remaining , grants. The adjustments were determined category follows: Director Grants\x97Seventeen director grants were made during the relevant period. Two director grants were made pursuant plan that dated the grants the enactment the plan. The remaining fifteen grants were automatically made under the Director Stock Option Plan for non-employee directors, which was approved shareholders , the date director\x92 election appointment the Board and subsequent anniversaries, beginning the fourth anniversary. Accordingly, the analysis determined that the originally assigned grant date for each director grant the measurement date, and accounting adjustments are required. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36273926549_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Monday Tuesday Grants\x97Beginning December , , new hire grants and grants for promotion and retention purposes (\x93promotion retention grants\x94) were made during the relevant period under the \x93Monday Tuesday Plan.\x94 Under the Monday Tuesday Plan, new hire grants made within pre-established guidelines approved the Board Compensation Committee were dated the Monday that the recipient started work ( the following Monday, the recipient started another day). The Company\x92 analysis showed this process reliable with very low error rates. Promotion retention grants, also based pre-established guidelines, were made generally the first Tuesday each month. The Company has concluded that the new hire and promotion retention grants made pursuant the Monday Tuesday Plan within pre-established guidelines not require adjustment, with the exception six grants that were erroneously dated before the employees\x92 start dates. For new hire and promotion retention grants made outside the guidelines, however, the Company has concluded that the measurement dates are the dates ratification the Board Compensation Committee rather than the dates used for grants within guidelines. Accordingly, based the methodology described above, the Company has recognized stock-based compensation expense $ million from grants. Focal Grants\x97During the relevant period, , focal grants were made employees typically annual basis part extensive process that required several months complete. Pursuant limits, guidelines and practices previously approved the Board Compensation Committee, managers throughout the Company would make recommendations for grants employees their areas responsibility. After senior management had determined that the grants were made accordance with these established limits, guidelines and practices, management treated the grants final when they were submitted the Board Compensation Committee for ratification. The Company has concluded that for , grants five dates, the originally assigned grant dates are not the proper measurement dates. For these grants, management\x92 process for finalizing the grants was completed after the originally assigned grant dates. result, the Company has recognized $ million stock-based compensation expense. For two the five grant dates comprising , grants, the evidence shows that the grants were finalized and the measurement date occurred one day after the originally assigned grant dates. The grants these two dates represent more than $ million the total $ million stock-based compensation expense resulting from focal grants. Other Meeting Grants\x97During the relevant period, meetings the Board Compensation Committee were held ratify , grants that are not Monday Tuesday, focal CEO grants. The grant dates and measurement dates for these grants are the meeting dates when the grants were ratified, with the exception grants. Forty-two these grants are dated concurrent with meeting that considered and approved certain grants, but the evidence indicates that all the grants may not have been finalized until later date. One the grants was approved and dated another meeting, but the recipient, who was becoming employed the Company part corporate acquisition, did not start until later date. Two other grants were approved before the employees\x92 start dates. Another grant was mistakenly cancelled and subsequently reinstated, requiring accounting adjustment. Thus, for these grants the Company has concluded that the originally assigned grant dates are not the proper measurement dates. result, the Company has recognized $ million stock-based compensation expense. Other UWC Grants\x97During the relevant period, , grants were approved UWCs for variety purposes, including executive recruitment, retention, promotion and new hires outside the Monday Tuesday process. These grants were not made pursuant pre-established guidelines adopted the Board Compensation Committee. Therefore, the Company has concluded that these grants were SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36273926549_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) not finalized for accounting purposes until ratification the Board Compensation Committee. Accordingly, for grants, the Company has concluded that the originally assigned grant dates are not the proper measurement dates. result, the Company has recognized $ million stock-based compensation expense. CEO Grants\x97During the relevant period, the Company made two grants CEO Steve Jobs. The first grant, dated January , , was for million option shares. The second grant, dated October , , was for million option shares. Both grants were cancelled March prior being exercised, when . Jobs received million shares restricted stock. With respect the grant dated January , , the Board December , , authorized special \x93CEO Compensation Committee\x94 grant . Jobs million shares. The evidence indicates that the CEO Compensation Committee finalized the terms the grant January , , although the Committee\x92 action was memorialized UWC transmitted January , . Because the measurement date the originally assigned grant date, the Company has not recognized any stock-based compensation expense from this grant. the Company had determined that the measurement date was the date when the UWC was executed received, then additional stock-based compensation would have been recognized. The grant dated October , was originally approved Board meeting August , , with exercise price $ . The terms the grant, however, were not finalized until December , . The grant was dated October , , with exercise price $ . The approval for the grant was improperly recorded occurring special Board meeting October , . Such special Board meeting did not occur. There was evidence, however, that any current member management was aware this irregularity. The Company has recognized $ million stock-based compensation expense for this grant, reflecting the difference between the exercise price $ and the share price December , $ . The incremental impact from recognizing stock-based compensation expense resulting from the investigation past stock option grants follows (dollars millions): Fiscal Year Pre-Tax Expense (Income) After Tax Expense $ ( ) $ \x97 Total \x96 impact Total $ $ Additionally, the Company has restated the pro forma expense under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . Note reflect the impact these adjustments. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36273926549_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) The following table presents the effects the stock-based compensation and related tax adjustments made the Company\x92 previously reported consolidated balance sheet September , ( millions, except share amounts): September , Reported Adjustments Restated ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ \x97 $ , Short-term investments , \x97 , Accounts receivable, less allowance $ \x97 Inventories \x97 Deferred tax assets \x97 Other current assets \x97 Total current assets , \x97 , Property, plant, and equipment, net \x97 Goodwill \x97 Acquired intangible assets, net \x97 Other assets ( ) Total assets $ , ( ) $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ \x97 $ , Accrued expenses , , Total current liabilities , , Non-current liabilities \x97 Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\x92 equity: Common stock, par value; , , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding , , Deferred stock compensation ( ) ( ) ( ) Retained earnings , ( ) , Accumulated other comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 Total shareholders\x92 equity , ( ) , Total liabilities and shareholders\x92 equity $ , ( ) $ , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36273926549_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) The following table presents the effects the stock-based compensation and related tax adjustments made the Company\x92 previously reported consolidated statements operations ( millions, except share and per share amounts): Fiscal Year Ended September , Fiscal Year Ended September , Reported Adjustments Restated Reported Adjustments Restated Net sales $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Cost sales ( ) , , , , Gross margin , ( ) , , ( ) , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) Selling, general, and administrative ( ) , , , , Restructuring costs \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Total operating expenses , , , , Operating income , ( ) , ( ) Other income and expense \x97 \x97 Income before provision for income taxes , ( ) , ( ) Provision for income taxes \x97 ( ) Net income $ , $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , \x97 , , \x97 , Diluted , , , , ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ $ $ $ $ Research and development $ $ $ $ $ $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3614184889_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) The following table presents the cumulative adjustments each component shareholders\x92 equity the end each fiscal year ( millions): Fiscal Year Common Stock Deferred Stock Compensation Retained Earnings Net Impact Shareholders\x92 Equity $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) \x97 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Note \x97Financial Instruments The carrying amounts cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued expenses approximate their fair value due the short maturities those instruments. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments The following table summarizes the fair value the Company\x92 cash and available-for-sale securities held its short-term investment portfolio, recorded cash and cash equivalents short-term investments ( millions): September , September , Cash $ $ . Treasury and Agency securities . Corporate Securities , , Foreign Securities , , Total cash equivalents , , . Treasury and Agency securities . Corporate Securities , , Foreign Securities Total short-term investments , , Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , $ , The Company\x92 . corporate securities consist primarily commercial paper, certificates deposit, time deposits, and corporate debt securities. Foreign securities consist primarily foreign commercial paper, certificates deposit, and time deposits with foreign institutions, most which are denominated . dollars. The Company had net unrealized losses totaling $ , its investment portfolio, primarily related investments with stated maturities less than year, September , , and net unrealized losses $ million its investment portfolio, approximately half which related investments with stated maturities less than year, September , . The Company may sell its investments prior their stated maturities for strategic purposes, anticipation credit deterioration, SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36355111540_P66510CHE_1586578\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) for duration management. The Company recognized net losses before taxes $ , and $ , and , respectively, and net gain before taxes $ million result such sales. These net gains were included interest and other income, net. September , and September , , approximately $ million and $ million, respectively, the Company\x92 short-term investments had underlying maturities ranging from years. The remaining short-term investments September , and September , had maturities less than months. accordance with FASB Staff Position (\x93FSP\x94) FAS - and FAS - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application Certain Investments, the following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value for those investments that were unrealized loss position September , and September , , aggregated investment category and the length time that individual securities have been continuous loss position ( millions): Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agency Securities $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 . Corporate Securities \x97 ( ) , ( ) Foreign Securities \x97 \x97 \x97 Total $ , $ \x97 $ $ ( ) $ , $ ( ) Less than Months Months Greater Total Security Description Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Loss . Treasury and Agency securities $ $ ( ) $ $ \x97 $ $ ( ) . corporate securities , ( ) \x97 , ( ) Foreign Securities , ( ) \x97 , ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) The unrealized losses the Company\x92 investments during . Government securities and during . Government securities, . corporate securities, and foreign securities were caused primarily changes interest rates. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities with low probabilities default. The Company\x92 investment policy requires investments rated single- better. Therefore, the Company considers the declines temporary nature. September , , the Company does not consider the investments other-than-temporarily impaired. Market values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating the investments for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition the issuer, and the Company\x92 ability and intent hold the investment for period time, which may sufficient for anticipated recovery market value. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36355111540_P66510CHE_1586578\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company distributes its products through third-party distributors and resellers and directly certain education, consumer, and commercial customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company does attempt limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Australia and arranging with third-party financing companies provide flooring arrangements and other loan and lease programs the Company\x92 direct customers. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. However, considerable trade receivables that are not covered collateral, third-party flooring arrangements, credit insurance are outstanding with the Company\x92 distribution and retail channel partners. customer accounted for more than % trade receivables September , September , . The following table summarizes the activity the allowance for doubtful accounts ( millions): September , September , September , Beginning allowance balance $ $ $ Charged costs and expenses Deductions( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Ending allowance balance $ $ $ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale raw material components these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these raw material components directly from suppliers. These non-trade receivables, which are included the consolidated balance sheets other current assets, totaled $ billion and $ million September , and September , , respectively. The Company does not reflect the sale these components net sales and does not recognize any profits these sales until the products are sold through the end customer which time the profit recognized reduction cost sales. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign exchange risk. Foreign currency forward and option contracts are used offset the foreign exchange risk certain existing assets and liabilities and hedge the foreign exchange risk expected future cash flows certain forecasted revenue and cost sales. From time time, the Company enters into interest rate derivative agreements modify the interest rate profile certain investments and debt. The Company\x92 accounting policies for these instruments are based whether the instruments are designated hedge non-hedge instruments. The Company records all derivatives the balance sheet fair value. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36355111540_P66510CHE_1586578\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) The following table shows the notional principal, net fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign currency instruments September , and September , ( millions): September , September , Notional Principal Fair Value Credit Risk Amounts Notional Principal Fair Value Creit Risk Amounts Foreign exchange instruments qualifying accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ $ $ $ $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ $ ( ) $ \x97 $ , $ ( ) $ \x97 Foreign exchange instruments other than accounting hedges: Spot Forward contracts $ , $ $ $ $ ( ) $ Purchased options $ $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ \x97 Sold options $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 The notional principal amounts for derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year-end, and not represent the amount the Company\x92 exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts shown the table above represents the Company\x92 gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency exchange rates each respective date. The Company\x92 exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models and prevailing financial market information September , and September , . Although the table above reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\x92 foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. Foreign Exchange Risk Management The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risk associated with existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows, and net investments foreign subsidiaries. Generally, the Company\x92 practice hedge majority its existing material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures due immateriality, prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures, limited availability appropriate hedging instruments. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\x92 . dollar functional subsidiaries hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue, and the Company\x92 non- . dollar functional subsidiaries selling local currencies hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries\x92 functional currency. Other comprehensive income SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36355111540_P66510CHE_1586578\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Financial Instruments (Continued) associated with hedges foreign currency revenue recognized component net sales the same period the related sales are recognized, and other comprehensive income related inventory purchases recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Typically, the Company hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases over time horizon months. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable that the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent month time period. Deferred gains and losses other comprehensive income associated with such derivative instruments are immediately reclassified into earnings other income and expense. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are also reflected current earnings unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. The Company recognized net gain approximately $ , and net losses $ million and $ million and , respectively, other income and expense related the loss hedge designation discontinued cash flow hedges due changes the Company\x92 forecast future net sales and cost sales and due prevailing market conditions. September , , the Company had net deferred gain associated with cash flow hedges approximately $ million, net taxes, substantially all which expected reclassified earnings the end the second quarter fiscal . The net gain loss the effective portion derivative instrument designated net investment hedge included the cumulative translation adjustment account accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders\x92 equity. For the years ended September , and September , , the Company had net gains $ million and $ , , respectively, included the cumulative translation adjustment. The Company may also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated the -measurement certain assets and liabilities recorded non-functional currencies. Changes the fair value these derivatives are recognized current earnings other income and expense offsets the changes the fair value the related assets liabilities. Due currency market movements, changes option time value can lead increased volatility other income and expense. Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) Other Current Assets Vendor non-trade receivables $ , $ NAND flash memory prepayments \x97 Other current assets Total other current assets $ , $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36355111540_P66510CHE_1586578\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) (Continued) Property, Plant, and Equipment Land and buildings $ $ Machinery, equipment, and internal-use software Office furniture and equipment Leasehold improvements , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( ) ( ) Net property, plant, and equipment $ , $ Other Assets Restated( ) Long-term NAND flash memory prepayments $ , $ \x97 Non-current deferred tax assets \x97 Capitalized software development costs, net Other assets Total other assets $ , $ Accrued Expenses Restated( ) Deferred revenue\x97current $ $ Accrued warranty and related costs Accrued marketing and distribution Accrued compensation and employee benefits Other accrued tax liability Deferred margin component sales Other current liabilities Total accrued expenses $ , $ , Non-Current Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities $ $ Deferred revenue\x97non-current Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36355111540_P66510CHE_1586578\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Consolidated Financial Statement Details ( millions) (Continued) Other Income and Expense Gains non-current investments, net $ \x97 $ \x97 $ Interest income $ $ $ Interest expense \x97 \x97 ( ) Other income (expense), net ( ) ( ) ( ) Total interest and other income, net Total other income and expense $ $ $ ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 Note \x97Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company currently amortizing its acquired intangible assets with definite lives over periods ranging from years. The following table summarizes the components gross and net intangible asset balances ( millions): September , September , Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Goodwill $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Acquired technology ( ) ( ) Total acquired intangible assets $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ September , , and September , , the weighted-average amortization period for acquired technology was years and years, respectively. During , the Company sold certain assets related its PowerSchool web-based student information system operations. connection with this sale, the Company reduced goodwill $ million for the outstanding balance from the acquisition PowerSchool, Inc. and recognized $ million pre-tax gain, which reflected other income and expense the consolidated statement operations. During , the Company recorded adjustment approximately $ million goodwill relating reduction valuation allowances that were recorded the time certain net operating loss carryforwards (\x93NOLs\x94) were acquired previous business combinations. During , these NOLs were deemed more likely than not realized and accordingly the valuation allowances were reversed against the related goodwill that was recognized the time the acquisitions. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36355111540_P66510CHE_1586578\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (Continued) Expected annual amortization expense related acquired technology follows ( millions): Fiscal Years: $ Thereafter Total $ Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Note \x97Restructuring Charges During , the Company recorded total restructuring charges approximately $ million, including approximately $ million severance costs, $ million asset impairments, and $ million for lease cancellations. The lease cancellations relate vacating leased sales facility from European workforce reduction during . the $ million charges, $ million had been utilized the end , with the remainder consisting $ million for lease cancellations. These actions have resulted the termination positions. Note \x97Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consisted the following ( millions): Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Federal: Current $ $ $ Deferred State: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Foreign: Current Deferred ( ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ billion, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. September , , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36345033940_P66538CHE_1586490\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Income Taxes (Continued) approximately $ billion the Company\x92 cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . The Company\x92 consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings certain the Company\x92 foreign subsidiaries that are intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million such earnings. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. October , , the American Jobs Creation Act (\x93AJCA\x94) was signed into law. The AJCA included provision for the deduction % certain foreign earnings that were repatriated, defined the AJCA, within specified time frame. Among other requirements, dividends qualifying for the % deduction must reinvested the United States certain qualified investments pursuant domestic reinvestment plan approved the Chief Executive Officer (\x93CEO\x94) and Board Directors. During , the Company repatriated approximately $ billion foreign earnings. the earnings repatriated, $ million eligible for the reduced tax rate provided the AJCA. Accordingly, the Company recorded tax charge $ million related the repatriation foreign earnings under the provisions the AJCA. addition, the Company recorded tax benefit $ million resulting from the implementation tax planning strategies recognize deferred tax assets that were previously not recognizable within certain foreign subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits, and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. September , and September , , the significant components the Company\x92 deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Restated ( ) Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ $ Tax losses and credits Basis capital assets and investments Accounts receivable and inventory reserves Other Total deferred tax assets Less valuation allowance Net deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries Total deferred tax liabilities Net deferred tax asset $ $ ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36345033940_P66538CHE_1586490\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Income Taxes (Continued) September , , the Company has state and foreign tax loss and state credit carryforwards, the tax effect which $ million. Certain those carryforwards, the tax effect which $ million, expire between . portion these carryforwards was acquired from the Company\x92 previous acquisitions, the utilization which subject certain limitations imposed the Internal Revenue Code. The remaining benefits from tax losses and credits not expire. September , and September , , valuation allowance $ million was recorded against the deferred tax asset for the benefits state operating losses that may not realized. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects the deferred tax liabilities, will sufficient fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , , and ) income before provision for income taxes, follows ( millions): Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Computed expected tax $ $ $ State taxes, net federal effect ( ) ( ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( ) ( ) ( ) Nondeductible executive compensation Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other items ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ $ $ Effective tax rate % % % ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 The Company\x92 income taxes payable has been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock options. The Company receives income tax benefit calculated the difference between the fair market value the stock issued the time the exercise and the option price, tax effected. The net tax benefits from employee stock option transactions were $ million, $ million ( restated( )), and $ million ( restated( )) , , and , respectively, and were reflected increase common stock the consolidated statements shareholders\x92 equity. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36345033940_P66538CHE_1586490\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Income Taxes (Continued) The Internal Revenue Service (\x93IRS\x94) has substantially completed its field audit the Company\x92 federal income tax returns for the years through and proposed certain adjustments. The Company intends contest certain these adjustments through the IRS Appeals Office. Substantially all IRS audit issues for years prior have been resolved. addition, the Company also subject audits state, local, and foreign tax authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. Should any issues addressed the Company\x92 tax audits resolved manner not consistent with management\x92 expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income tax the period such resolution occurs. , the Company recorded tax benefit $ million due the settlement prior year tax audits the . Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity Preferred Stock The Company has five million shares authorized preferred stock, none which outstanding. Under the terms the Company\x92 Restated Articles Incorporation, the Board Directors authorized determine alter the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions the Company\x92 authorized but unissued shares preferred stock. Restricted Stock Units The Company\x92 Board Directors has granted restricted stock units members the Company\x92 senior management team, excluding its CEO. These restricted stock units generally vest over four years either the end the four-year service period, two equal installments the second and fourth anniversaries the date grant, equal installments each the first through fourth anniversaries the grant date. Upon vesting, the restricted stock units will convert into equivalent number shares common stock. The amounts the restricted stock units expensed the Company are based the closing market price the Company\x92 common stock the date grant and are amortized straight-line basis over the four-year requisite service period. The restricted stock units have been reflected the calculation diluted earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method. million previously granted restricted stock units vested during . majority these vested restricted stock units were net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees\x92 minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld , for was based the value the restricted stock units their vesting date determined the Company\x92 closing stock price. Total payments for the employees\x92 tax obligations the taxing authorities were approximately $ million. These net-share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced and retired the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. CEO Restricted Stock Award March , , the Company\x92 Board Directors granted million shares restricted stock the Company\x92 CEO that vested March , . The amount the restricted stock award expensed the Company was based the closing market price the Company\x92 common stock the date grant and was amortized straight-line basis over the three-year requisite service period. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36345033940_P66538CHE_1586490\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity (Continued) Upon vesting during , the restricted stock award was net-share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the CEO\x92 minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld million was based the value the restricted stock award the vesting date determined the Company\x92 closing stock price $ . The remaining shares net those withheld were delivered the Company\x92 CEO. Total payments for the CEO\x92 tax obligations the taxing authorities were approximately $ million. The net-share settlement had the effect share repurchases the Company reduced and retired the number shares outstanding and did not represent expense the Company. Stock Repurchase Plan July , the Company\x92 Board Directors authorized plan for the Company repurchase $ million its common stock. This repurchase plan does not obligate the Company acquire any specific number shares acquire shares over any specified period time. The Company has repurchased total million shares cost $ million under this plan and was authorized repurchase additional $ million its common stock September , . Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components: net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income refers revenue, expenses, gains, and losses that under . generally accepted accounting principles are recorded element shareholders\x92 equity but are excluded from net income. The Company\x92 other comprehensive income consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, unrealized gains and losses marketable securities categorized available-for-sale, and net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges. The following table summarizes the components accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net taxes ( millions): Unrealized losses available-for-sale securities $ \x97 $ ( ) $ ( ) Unrealized gains/(losses) derivative investments ( ) Cumulative foreign currency translation \x97 ( ) Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) $ $ \x97 $ ( ) The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related available-for-sale securities, net taxes ( millions): Change fair value available-for-sale securities $ $ \x97 $ ( ) Adjustment for net gains losses realized and included net income \x97 \x97 ( ) Change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities $ $ \x97 $ ( ) The tax effect related the change unrealized gain loss available-for-sale securities was $( ) million, zero, and $ million for , , and , respectively. The tax effect the reclassification adjustment for net gains losses realized and included net income was $ million for . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36345033940_P66538CHE_1586490\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity (Continued) The following table summarizes activity other comprehensive income related derivatives, net taxes, held the Company ( millions): Changes fair value derivatives $ $ $ ( ) Adjustment for net losses realized and included net income ( ) Change unrealized gain loss derivative instruments $ ( ) $ $ The tax effect related the changes fair value derivatives was $( ) million, $( ) million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. The tax effect related derivative gains losses reclassified from other comprehensive income net income was $ million, $( ) million, and $( ) million for , , and , respectively. Employee Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan The Employee Stock Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94) shareholder approved plan that provides for broad-based grants employees, including executive officers. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, and stock purchase rights. Employee Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors approved the Employee Stock Option Plan (the \x93 Plan\x94), non-shareholder approved plan for grants stock options employees who are not officers the Company. Based the terms individual option grants, options granted under the Plan generally expire years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period years, based continued employment, with either annual quarterly vesting. October , the Company terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan and cancelled all remaining unissued shares totaling , , . new options can granted from the Plan. Employee Stock Option Exchange Program March , , the Company announced voluntary employee stock option exchange program (the \x93Exchange Program\x94) whereby eligible employees, other than executive officers and members the Board Directors, had opportunity exchange outstanding options with exercise prices above $ per share for predetermined smaller number new stock options issued with exercise prices equal the fair market value one share the Company\x92 common stock the day the new awards were issued, which was least six months plus one day after the exchange options were cancelled. April , , accordance with the Exchange Program, the Company cancelled options purchase , , shares its common stock. October , , new stock options totaling , , shares were issued employees exercise price $ per share, which equivalent the closing price the Company\x92 stock that date. financial accounting impact the Company\x92 financial position, results operations cash flows was associated with this transaction. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36345033940_P66538CHE_1586490\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders\x92 Equity (Continued) Director Stock Option Plan August , the Company\x92 Board Directors adopted Director Stock Option Plan (\x93Director Plan\x94) for non-employee directors the Company, which was approved shareholders . Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\x92 non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (\x93Initial Options \x94 ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\x92 initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (\x93Annual Options\x94). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans Certain the Company\x92 executive officers, including . Timothy . Cook, . Peter Oppenheimer, . Philip . Schiller, and . Bertrand Serlet, have entered into trading plans pursuant Rule 10b5- ( )( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended. trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company\x92 stock including the exercise and sale employee stock options and shares acquired pursuant the Company\x92 employee stock purchase plan and upon vesting restricted stock units. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has shareholder approved employee stock purchase plan (the \x93Purchase Plan\x94), under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning and end six month offering periods. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\x92 compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. The number shares authorized for issuance limited total million shares per offering period. During , , and , adjusted for the February stock split, million, million, and million shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Employee Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the \x93Savings Plan\x94) qualifying deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee\x92 contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\x92 earnings. The Company\x92 matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36345033940_P66538CHE_1586490\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders' Equity (Continued) Stock Option Activity summary the Company\x92 stock option activity and related information for the last three fiscal years follows (stock award amounts and aggregate intrinsic value are presented thousands): Outstanding Options Shares Available Number Weighted-Average Weighted-Average Remaining Aggregate for Grant Shares Exercise Price Contractual Term Intrinsic Value Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Granted ( , ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Additional Options Authorized , \x97 \x97 Restricted Stock Units Granted ( ) \x97 \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted Stock Units Cancelled \x97 \x97 Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( , ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ Restricted Stock Units Granted ( , ) \x97 Options Granted ( , ) , $ Options Cancelled , ( , ) $ Restricted Stock Units Cancelled \x97 \x97 Options Exercised \x97 ( , ) $ Plan Shares Expired ( ) \x97 \x97 Balance September , , , $ $ , , Exercisable September , , $ $ , , Expected Vest after September , , $ $ , conjunction with the amendments the Plan that were approved the Annual Meeting Shareholders held April , , the number shares available for grant under the Plan will reduced two times the number restricted shares and restricted stock units granted. This amendment effective for all grants made after April , . Aggregate intrinsic value represents the value the Company\x92 closing stock price the last trading day the fiscal period excess the exercise price multiplied the number options outstanding exercisable. Total intrinsic value options time exercise was $ billion, $ billion, and $ million for , , and , respectively. September , , the Company had million restricted stock units outstanding with total grant-date fair value $ million that were excluded from the options outstanding balances the preceding table. The weighted-average grant date fair value restricted stock units granted during , , and was $ , $ , and $ , respectively. Aggregate intrinsic value unvested restricted stock units September , was $ million. Restricted stock units that vested during totaled million and had fair value $ million the vesting date. Granted restricted stock units have been deducted from the shares available for grant under the Company\x92 stock option plans. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\361123520155_D11651_1583573\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Shareholders' Equity (Continued) The number shares restricted stock that vested during was million, which had fair value $ million. The grant-date fair value restricted stock that fully vested during was $ per share. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , , compensation expense related restricted stock was $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Note \x97Stock-Based Compensation The Company has provided pro forma disclosures Note these Notes Consolidated Financial Statements the effect net income and earnings per share for the years ended September , and September , the fair value method accounting for stock compensation had been used for its employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan purchases. These pro forma effects have been estimated the date grant and beginning the period, respectively, using the BSM option pricing model. The weighted average assumptions used for , , and and the resulting estimates weighted-average fair value per share options granted and for stock purchases during those periods are follows: Expected life stock options years years years Expected life stock purchases months months months Interest rate\x97stock options % % % Interest rate\x97stock purchases % % % Volatility\x97stock options % % % Volatility\x97stock purchases % % % Dividend yields \x97 \x97 \x97 Weighted-average fair value options granted during the year $ $ $ Weighted-average fair value stock purchases during the year $ $ $ Pursuant SFAS . 123R, the expected volatility assumptions used the Company are based the historical volatility the Company\x92 common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life the Company\x92 stock options and other relevant factors including implied volatility market traded options the Company\x92 common stock. The Company bases its expected life assumption its historical experience and the terms and conditions the stock options grants employees. Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies Lease Commitments The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance-sheet financing arrangements. The major facility leases are for terms years and generally provide SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\361123520155_D11651_1583573\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) renewal options for terms additional years. Leases for retail space are for terms years, the majority which are for years, and often contain multi-year renewal options. September , , the Company\x92 total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were approximately $ billion, which $ million related leases for retail space. Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): Fiscal Years $ Thereafter Total minimum lease payments $ , Accrued Warranty and Indemnifications The Company offers basic limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period for hardware products typically one year from the date purchase the end-user. The Company also offers -day basic warranty for its service parts used repair the Company\x92 hardware products. The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under its basic limited product warranties the time related revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals for product warranty obligations include the size the installed base products subject warranty protection, historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost-per-claim, and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company\x92 typical experience. The Company assesses the adequacy its preexisting warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. The Company periodically provides updates its applications and system software maintain the software\x92 compliance with specifications. The estimated cost develop such updates accounted for warranty costs that are recognized the time related software revenue recognized. Factors considered determining appropriate accruals related such updates include the number units delivered, the number updates expected occur, and the historical cost and estimated future cost the resources necessary develop these updates. The following table reconciles changes the Company\x92 accrued warranties and related costs ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ Cost warranty claims ( ) ( ) ( ) Accruals for product warranties Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\361123520155_D11651_1583573\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) The Company generally does not indemnify end-users its operating system and application software against legal claims that the software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Other agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions under which the Company could subject costs and damages the event infringement claim against the Company indemnified third-party. However, the Company has not been required make any significant payments resulting from such infringement claim asserted against itself indemnified third-party and, the opinion management, does not have potential liability related unresolved infringement claims subject indemnification that would have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity results operations. Therefore, the Company did not record liability for infringement costs either September , September , . Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company\x92 business are generally available from multiple sources, other key components (including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits (\x93ASICs\x94)) are currently obtained the Company from single limited sources. Some other key components, while currently available the Company from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. addition, the Company uses some components that are not common the rest the personal computer industry, and new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there need for and subsequently qualifies additional suppliers. the supply key single-sourced component the Company were delayed curtailed, the event key manufacturing vendor delays shipments completed products the Company, the Company\x92 ability ship related products desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\x92 business and financial performance could also adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components may affected producers were decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company\x92 requirements. Finally, significant portions the Company\x92 CPUs, logic boards, and assembled products are now manufactured outsourcing partners, primarily various parts Asia. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company\x92 operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production obligations. Long-Term Supply Agreements During , the Company entered into long-term supply agreements with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation secure supply NAND flash memory through calendar year . part these agreements, the Company prepaid $ billion for flash memory components during . These prepayments will applied inventory purchases made over the life each respective agreement. Contingencies The Company subject certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not been fully adjudicated. the opinion management, the Company does not have potential liability related any current legal proceedings and claims that would individually the aggregate have material adverse effect its financial condition, liquidity, results operations. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\361123520155_D11651_1583573\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) However, the results legal proceedings cannot predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail prevail any these legal matters should several these legal matters resolved against the Company the same reporting period, the operating results particular reporting period could materially adversely affected. Production and marketing products certain states and countries may subject the Company environmental and other regulations including, some instances, the requirement provide customers the ability return product the end its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed several jurisdictions which the Company operates including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the . Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, there assurance that such existing laws future laws will not have material adverse effect the Company\x92 financial condition, liquidity, results operations. Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , the Company reports segment information based the \x93management\x94 approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company\x92 reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company\x92 reportable operating segments are comprised the Americas, Europe, Japan, and Retail. The Americas, Europe, and Japan reportable segments not include activities related the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries well the Middle East and Africa. The Retail segment operates Apple-owned retail stores the ., Canada, Japan, and the . Other operating segments include Asia-Pacific, which includes Australia and Asia except for Japan, and the Company\x92 subsidiary, FileMaker, Inc. Each reportable geographic operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services, and the accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , \x93Summary Significant Accounting Policies,\x94 except described below for the Retail segment. The Company evaluates the performance its operating segments based net sales. The Retail segment\x92 performance also evaluated based operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location the customers. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales, and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses that are managed outside the operating segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, research and development, corporate marketing expenses, stock-based compensation expense, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. Segment assets exclude corporate assets. Corporate assets include cash, short-term and long-term investments, manufacturing facilities, miscellaneous corporate infrastructure, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, and retail store construction- -progress that not subject depreciation. Except for the Retail segment, capital SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\361123520155_D11651_1583573\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) expenditures for long-lived assets are not reported management segment. Capital expenditures the Retail segment were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively Operating income for all segments, except Retail, includes cost sales manufacturing standard cost, other cost sales, related sales and marketing costs, and certain general and administrative costs. This measure operating income, which includes manufacturing profit, provides comparable basis for comparison between the Company\x92 various geographic segments. Certain manufacturing expenses and related adjustments not included segment cost sales, including variances between standard and actual manufacturing costs and the mark- above standard cost for product supplied the Retail segment, are included corporate expenses. Management assesses the operating performance the Retail segment differently than assesses the operating performance the Company\x92 geographic segments. The Retail segment revenue and operating income intended depict measure comparable that the Company\x92 major channel partners the . operating retail stores the Company can evaluate the Retail segment performance were channel partner. Therefore, the Company makes three significant adjustments the Retail segment for management reporting purposes that are not included the results the Company\x92 other segments. First, the Retail segment\x92 operating income includes cost sales for Apple products amount normally charged major channel partners the . operating retail stores, less the cost sales programs and incentives provided those channel partners and the Company\x92 cost support those partners. For the years ended September , , September , , and September , , this resulted the recognition additional cost sales above standard cost the Retail segment and offsetting benefit corporate expenses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively. Second, the Company\x92 service and support contracts are transferred the Retail segment the same cost that charged the Company\x92 major retail channel partners the ., resulting measure revenue and gross margin for those items that comparable between the Company\x92 retail stores and those retail channel partners. The Retail segment recognizes the full amount revenue and cost sales the Company\x92 service and support contracts the time sale. Because the Company has not yet earned the revenue incurred the costs associated with the sale these contracts, offset these amounts recognized other operating segments\x92 net sales and cost sales. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment, with corresponding offsets other operating segments, $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment $ million and $ million, respectively. For the year ended September , , this resulted the recognition net sales and cost sales the Retail segment $ million and $ million, respectively. Third, the Company had opened total eight high-profile stores September , . These high-profile stores are larger than the Company\x92 typical retail stores and were designed further promote brand awareness and provide venue for certain corporate sales and marketing activities, including corporate briefings. such, the Company allocates certain operating expenses associated with these stores corporate marketing expense reflect the estimated benefit realized Company-wide. The allocation these operating costs based the amount incurred for high-profile store excess that incurred more typical Company retail location. Expenses allocated corporate marketing resulting SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\361123520155_D11651_1583573\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) from the operations these stores were $ million, $ million, and $ million for the years ended September , , September , , and September , , respectively Summary information operating segment follows ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Japan: Net sales $ , $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ Retail: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion ( ) $ $ $ Segment assets ( ) $ $ $ Other Segments ( ): Net sales $ , $ $ Operating income $ $ $ Depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Segment assets $ $ $ ( ) The Americas asset figures not include fixed assets held the . Such fixed assets are not allocated specifically the Americas segment and are included the corporate assets figures below. ( ) Retail segment depreciation and asset figures reflect the cost and related depreciation its retail stores and related infrastructure. Retail store construction- -progress, which not subject depreciation, reflected corporate assets. ( ) Other Segments include Asia-Pacific and FileMaker. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\361123520155_D11651_1583573\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) reconciliation the Company\x92 segment operating income and assets the consolidated financial statements follows ( millions): Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Segment operating income $ , $ , $ Retail manufacturing margin ( ) Other corporate expenses, net ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) Stock-based compensation expense ( ) ( ) ( ) Restructuring costs \x97 \x97 ( ) Consolidated operating income $ , $ , $ Segment assets $ , $ , $ , Corporate assets , , , Consolidated assets $ , $ , $ , Segment depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ Corporate depreciation, amortization, and accretion Consolidated depreciation, amortization, and accretion $ $ $ ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 ( ) Represents the excess the Retail segment\x92 cost sales over the Company\x92 standard cost sales for products sold through the Retail segment. ( ) Corporate expenses include research and development, corporate marketing expenses, manufacturing costs and variances not included standard costs, and other separately managed general and administrative expenses including certain corporate expenses associated with support the Retail segment. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , , . Net sales and long-lived assets related operations the ., Japan, and other foreign countries are follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , Japan , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ $ Japan Other countries Total long-lived assets $ , $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203327293_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Segment Information and Geographic Data (Continued) Information regarding net sales product follows ( millions): Net sales: Desktops ( ) $ , $ , $ , Portables ( ) , , , Total Macintosh net sales , , , iPod , , , Other music related products and services ( ) , Peripherals and other hardware ( ) , , Software, service, and other net sales ( ) , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes iMac, eMac, Mac mini, Power Mac, Mac Pro, and Xserve product lines. ( ) Includes MacBook, iBook, MacBook Pro, and PowerBook product lines. ( ) Consists iTunes Store sales and iPod services, and Apple-branded and third-party iPod accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded and third-party displays, wireless connectivity and networking solutions, and other hardware accessories. ( ) Includes sales Apple-branded operating system and application software, third-party software, AppleCare, and Internet services. Note \x97Related Party Transactions and Certain Other Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, Steve Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Company business. The Reimbursement Agreement became effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Company business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ , , $ , , , and $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during , , and , respectively. All expenses recognized pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement have been included selling, general, and administrative expenses the consolidated statements operations. , the Company entered into agreement with Pixar sell certain Pixar\x92 short films the iTunes Store. . Jobs was the CEO, Chairman, and large shareholder Pixar. May , , The Walt Disney Company (\x93Disney\x94) acquired Pixar, which resulted Pixar becoming wholly-owned subsidiary Disney. Upon Disney\x92 acquisition Pixar, . Jobs\x92 shares Pixar common stock were exchanged for Disney\x92 common stock and was elected the Disney Board Directors. Royalty expense recognized the Company under the arrangement with Pixar from September , through May , was less than $ million. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203327293_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables set forth summary the Company\x92 quarterly financial information for each the four quarters ended September , and September , ( millions, except share and per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Cost sales ( ) , , , , Gross margin , , , , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ $ $ Research and development $ $ $ $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ The net tax impact the stock-based compensation adjustments , which amounted $ million, was recorded the Company its fourth quarter and described Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the third quarter benefited $ million resulting from the dividend repatriation under the AJCA and international tax planning strategies associated with the repatriation. Net SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203327293_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Continued) income during the fourth quarter benefited $ million due the settlement prior year tax audits the . Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Restated ( ) Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Cost sales ( ) , , , , Gross margin , , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income Other income and expense Income before provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes Net income $ $ $ $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ \x97 $ $ Research and development $ $ $ $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ The impact the stock-based compensation adjustments was not significant any the interim balance sheets for fiscal year . Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Net income during the fourth quarter benefited $ million from the reversal certain tax contingency reserves and adjustments net deferred tax assets, including reductions valuation allowances. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203327293_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Continued) The following tables present the effects adjustments made the Company\x92 previously reported quarterly financial information September , ( millions, expect per share amounts): Three Months Ended September , Three Months Ended June , Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Net sales $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Cost sales ( ) , \x97 , , \x97 , Gross margin , \x97 , , \x97 , Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) \x97 \x97 Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income ( ) ( ) Other income and expense \x97 \x97 Income before provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes \x97 Net income $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Diluted $ $ ( ) $ $ $ \x97 $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , \x97 , , \x97 , Diluted , , , , ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 Research and development $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203327293_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Note \x97Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Continued) Three Months Ended March , Three Months Ended December , Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Reported Adjustments ( ) Restated Net sales $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , Cost sales ( ) , \x97 , , , Gross margin \x97 ( ) Operating expenses: Research and development ( ) \x97 Selling, general, and administrative ( ) Total operating expenses Operating income ( ) ( ) Other income and expense \x97 \x97 Income before provision for income taxes ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes \x97 ( ) Net income $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Earnings per common share: Basic $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Diluted $ $ \x97 $ $ $ \x97 $ Shares used computing earnings per share ( thousands): Basic , \x97 , , \x97 , Diluted , , , , ( ) See Note , \x93Restatement Consolidated Financial Statements.\x94 ( ) Includes stock-based compensation expense, which was allocated follows: Cost sales $ $ \x97 $ $ \x97 $ $ Research and development $ $ $ $ $ \x97 $ Selling, general, and administrative $ $ $ $ $ $ SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\362203327293_D10716_1586754\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' eport Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , . These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these consolidated financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the consolidated financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the financial position the Company September , and September , , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. discussed Note the Consolidated Financial Statements, the consolidated financial statements September , and for each the years the two-year period ended September , have been restated. discussed Note the Consolidated Financial Statements, effective September , , the Company adopted the provision Statement Financial Accounting Standards . (revised ), Share-Based Payment . also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated December , expressed unqualified opinion management\x92 assessment , and the effective operation internal control over financial reporting. SET mrlHTMLTableFull SET mrlNoTableShading / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California December , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36143248673_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Computer, Inc.: have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Apple Computer, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO). Apple Computer, Inc.\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the Apple Computer, Inc.\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that Apple Computer, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting September , , fairly stated, all material respects, based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued COSO. Also, our opinion, Apple Computer, Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued COSO. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, shareholders\x92 equity, and cash flows for each the years the three-year period ended September , , and our report dated December , expressed unqualified opinion those consolidated financial statements. SET mrlHTMLTableFull SET mrlNoTableShading / / KPMG LLP Mountain View, California December , SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36143248673_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' ", 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': "Controls and Procedures Special Committee Review into Stock Option Grant Practices and Restatement discussed the Explanatory Note preceding Part and Note Notes Consolidated Financial Statements this Form - , the Company June , , announced that internal review had discovered irregularities related the issuance certain past stock option grants, including grant its CEO Steve Jobs. The Company also announced that Special Committee outside directors (\x93Special Committee\x94) had been formed and had hired independent counsel conduct full investigation the Company\x92 past stock option granting practices. result the internal review and the independent investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit and Finance Committee the Board Directors agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for certain stock option grants made prior periods. Therefore, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard past stock option grants, and the Company restating previously filed financial statements this Form - . The internal review and the Special Committee\x92 independent investigation identified number occasions between October and January (the \x93relevant period\x94) when the Company used incorrect measurement dates for stock option grants. The independent investigation also found that during the relevant period: · Procedures for granting, accounting, and reporting stock option grants did not include sufficient safeguards prevent manipulation · The grant dates for number grants were intentionally selected order obtain favorable exercise prices · Two former officers the Corporation engaged conduct that raises serious concerns connection with the granting, accounting, recording, and reporting stock options · CEO Steve Jobs was aware recommended the selection some favorable grant dates, but did not receive financially benefit from these grants appreciate the accounting implications From through , the Company implemented improvements procedures, processes, and systems provide additional safeguards and greater internal control over the stock option granting and administration function compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (\x93SOX\x94) and evolving accounting guidance. These improvements included: · Documenting and assessing the design and operation internal controls · Segregating responsibilities, adding reviews and reconciliations, and redefining roles and responsibilities · Upgrading systems and system controls that support the processes · Obtaining training the stock administration function · Implementing before the adoption SFAS . 123R the practice using the receipt the final Board Compensation Committee approval the grant and measurement date for stock option grants · Identifying key controls, developing test plans, and testing controls the stock granting and administration function SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36354349668_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' · Certifying stock administration and other controls for SOX Section compliance fiscal year The internal review and the independent investigation discovered stock option grant after January that required accounting adjustments. coming the conclusion that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures and the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting were effective September , , management considered, among other things, the impact the restatement the financial statements and the effectiveness the internal controls this area the fiscal years ended and . Management has concluded, therefore, that control deficiencies resulting the restatement previously issued financial statements did not constitute material weakness disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls and procedures over financial reporting, September , . addition the significant improvements implemented between and discussed above, the Company will adopt other measures identified the Special Committee and management enhance the oversight the stock option granting and administration function and the review and preparation financial statements, including: · The Company will engage experienced General Counsel, increase the resources the Corporate Legal Department, and review the adequacy its procedures and practices · The CFO will arrange for senior management undertake professional training enhance awareness and understanding standards and principles for accounting and financial reporting, particularly those relevant stock options · The Company will review all current policies, practices, and controls related the granting stock options and provide education and training those who implement those policies and processes, needed · The Company will establish improved procedures for regular communication among the General Counsel, the CFO, and stock administrators improve monitoring all Company practices with regard stock option grants, including formal written confirmation that all grant dates correspond precisely with the dates authorized · The Company will also establish improved procedures for the review the preparation and presentation financial statements senior management Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company\x92 management, the Company\x92 principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company\x92 disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (Exchange Act) were effective September , ensure that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company\x92 management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36354349668_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company\x92 assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that the Company\x92 receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company\x92 management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company\x92 CEO and CFO, does not expect that the Company\x92 internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management\x92 Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company\x92 management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act , amended). Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control\x97Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based this evaluation, management has concluded that the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective September , . The Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, has issued attestation report the Company\x92 assessment its internal control over financial reporting. The report the audit internal control over financial reporting appears page this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were significant changes the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting identified management\x92 evaluation during the fourth quarter fiscal that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. ", 'item 9b. ': "Other Information None. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36354349668_P66507CHE_1586576\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' PART III ", 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': "Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Directors Listed below are the Company\x92 seven directors whose terms expire the next annual meeting shareholders. Name Position With the Company Age Director Since William . Campbell -lead Director Millard . Drexler Director Albert . Gore, . Director Steven . Jobs Director and Chief Executive Officer Arthur . Levinson -lead Director Eric . Schmidt Director Jerome . York Director William . Campbell has been Chairman the Board Directors Intuit, Inc. ( \x93Intuit\x94 ) since August . From September January , . Campbell acted Chief Executive Officer Intuit. From April August , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer and director Intuit. From January December , . Campbell was President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation. . Campbell also serves the Board Directors Opsware, Inc. Millard . Drexler has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . Crew Group, Inc. since January . Previously, . Drexler was Chief Executive Officer Gap Inc. from and President from until September . . Drexler was also member the Board Directors Gap Inc. from November until October . Albert . Gore, . has served Senior Advisor Google, Inc. since . has also served Executive Chairman Current since and Chairman Generation Investment Management since . visiting professor Middle Tennessee State University. . Gore was inaugurated the 45th Vice President the United States . was -elected and served for total eight years President the Senate, member the Cabinet and the National Security Council. Prior , served eight years the . Senate and eight years the . House Representatives. Steven . Jobs one the Company\x92 -founders and currently serves its Chief Executive Officer. . Jobs also director The Walt Disney Company. Arthur . Levinson, . has been Chief Executive Officer and Director Genentech Inc. (\x93 Genentech\x94 ) since July . . Levinson has been Chairman the Board Directors Genentech since September . joined Genentech and served number executive positions, including Senior Vice President & from . . Levinson also serves the Board Directors Google, Inc. Eric . Schmidt, . has served the Chief Executive Officer Google, Inc. (\x93 Google \x94) since July and member Google\x92 Board Directors since March , where served Chairman the Board from March April . April , . Schmidt was named Chairman the Executive Committee Google\x92 Board Directors. From April November , . Schmidt served Chairman the Board Directors Novell, Inc., computer networking company, and, from April July , the Chief Executive Officer Novell. . Schmidt was director Siebel Systems until January . Jerome . York has been Chief Executive Officer Harwinton Capital Corporation, private investment company that controls, since September . From January until September , . York was SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\360221241148_P66507CHE_1582217\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer MicroWarehouse, Inc., reseller computer hardware, software and peripheral products. From September October , was Vice Chairman Tracinda Corporation. From May September was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IBM Corporation, and served member IBM\x92 Board Directors from January August . . York also director Tyco International Ltd. Role the Board; Corporate Governance Matters the paramount duty the Board Directors oversee the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management the competent and ethical operation the Company day- -day basis and assure that the long-term interests the shareholders are being served. satisfy this duty, the directors take proactive, focused approach their position, and set standards ensure that the Company committed business success through maintenance the highest standards responsibility and ethics. Members the Board bring the Company wide range experience, knowledge and judgment. These varied skills mean that governance far more than \x93check the box\x94 approach standards procedures. The governance structure the Company designed working structure for principled actions, effective decision-making and appropriate monitoring both compliance and performance. The key practices and procedures the Board are outlined the Corporate Governance Guidelines available the Company\x92 website www apple com investor. Board Committees The Board has standing Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (\x93Nominating Committee \x94 ) and Audit and Finance Committee (\x93Audit Committee\x94). All committee members are independent under the listing standards the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The Audit Committee primarily responsible for overseeing the services performed the Company\x92 independent auditors and internal audit department, evaluating the Company\x92 accounting policies and its system internal controls and reviewing significant financial transactions. Members the Audit Committee are Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson. The Compensation Committee primarily responsible for reviewing the compensation arrangements for the Company\x92 executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, and for administering the Company\x92 equity compensation plans. Members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler, and Gore. The Nominating Committee assists the Board identifying qualified individuals become directors, determines the composition the Board and its committees, monitors the process assess Board effectiveness and helps develop and implement the Company\x92 corporate governance guidelines. The Nominating Committee also considers nominees proposed shareholders. Members the Nominating Committee are Messrs. Drexler and Gore and . Levinson. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees operate under written charters adopted the Board. These charters are available Apple\x92 website www apple com investor. Audit Committee Financial Expert All members the Company\x92 Audit Committee, Messrs. Campbell and York and . Levinson, qualify \x93audit committee financial experts\x94 under Item ( ) Regulation - and are considered \x93independent\x94 the term used Item ( )( )( ) Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act. Code Ethics The Company has code ethics that applies all the Company\x92 employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and its Board. copy this code, SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\360221241148_P66507CHE_1582217\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' \x93Ethics: The Way Business Worldwide,\x94 available the Company\x92 website www apple com investor. The Company intends disclose any changes waivers from its code ethics posting such information its website filing Form - . Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding executive officers the Company. Information pertaining . Jobs, who both director and executive officer the Company, may found the section entitled \x93 Directors .\x94 Timothy . Cook, Chief Operating Officer (age ), joined the Company March . . Cook also served with the Company Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations from . , his responsibilities were expanded include the Company\x92 Macintosh hardware engineering. From , . Cook served the role Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Sales, Service and Support. From , . Cook served the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Prior joining the Company, . Cook held the position Vice President, Corporate Materials for Compaq Computer Corporation (\x93 Compaq\x94 ). Previous his work Compaq, . Cook was the Chief Operating Officer the Reseller Division Intelligent Electronics. . Cook also spent years with IBM, most recently Director North American Fulfillment. . Cook also serves member the Board Directors Nike, Inc. Anthony Fadell, Senior Vice President, iPod Division (age ), joined the Company . From April , . Fadell was Vice President iPod Engineering. From , . Fadell was the Senior Director the Company\x92 iPod Engineering Team. Prior joining Apple, . Fadell was -founder, CTO, and director engineering the Mobile Computing Group Philips Electronics where was responsible for all aspects business and product development for variety products. . Fadell later became Business Development for Philips . Strategy & Ventures, focusing building the company\x92 digital media strategy and investment portfolio. Prior joining Philips, . Fadell was hardware and software architect General Magic. Ronald . Johnson, Senior Vice President, Retail (age ), joined the Company January . Prior joining the Company, . Johnson spent years with Target Stores, most recently Senior Merchandising Executive. Peter Oppenheimer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ), joined the Company July . . Oppenheimer also served with the Company the position Vice President and Corporate Controller, and Senior Director Finance for the Americas. Prior joining the Company, . Oppenheimer was CFO one the four business units for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (\x93 ADP\x94 ). Prior joining ADP, . Oppenheimer spent six years the Information Technology Consulting Practice with Coopers and Lybrand. Donald . Rosenberg, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (age ), joined the Company December . Prior joining the Company . Rosenberg spent years with IBM, most recently Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Prior that held number senior positions IBM, including over ten years Vice President and Assistant General Counsel for litigation. Philip . Schiller, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing (age ), rejoined the Company . Prior rejoining the Company, . Schiller was Vice President Product Marketing Macromedia, Inc. from December March , and was Director Product Marketing FirePower Systems, Inc. from December . Prior that, . Schiller spent six years the Company various marketing positions. Bertrand Serlet, ., Senior Vice President, Software Engineering (age ), joined the Company February upon the Company\x92 acquisition NeXT. NeXT, . Serlet held several engineering SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\360221241148_P66507CHE_1582217\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' and managerial positions, including Director Web Engineering. Prior NeXT, from , . Serlet worked research engineer Xerox PARC. Sina Tamaddon, Senior Vice President, Applications (age ), joined the Company September . . Tamaddon has also served with the Company the position Senior Vice President, Worldwide Service and Support, and Vice President and General Manager, Newton Group. Before joining the Company, . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Europe with NeXT from September through March . From August August , . Tamaddon held the position Vice President, Professional Services with NeXT. Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended, requires the Company\x92 officers and directors, and persons who own more than ten percent registered class the Company\x92 equity securities, file reports securities ownership and changes such ownership with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93 SEC \x94). Officers, directors and greater than ten percent shareholders also are required rules promulgated the SEC furnish the Company with copies all Section ( ) forms they file. Based solely upon review the copies such forms furnished the Company written representations that Forms were required, the Company believes that all Section ( ) filing requirements were met during fiscal year , except for the following: ( ) one Form was filed for Arthur . Levinson August , report automatic stock option grant under the Company\x92 Director Stock Option Plan made August , ; and ( ) one Form was filed for Anthony Fadell September , with respect the purchase and sale . Fadell\x92 trust and shares, respectively, the Company\x92 Common Stock June and August . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\360221241148_P66507CHE_1582217\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' ", 'item 11. ': "Executive Compensation Information Regarding Executive Compensation The following table summarizes compensation information for the last three fiscal years for ( ) . Jobs, Chief Executive Officer, and ( ) the four most highly compensated executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer who were serving executive officers the Company the end the fiscal year (collectively, the \x93 Named Executive Officers\x94 ). SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE SET mrlNoTableShading Annual Compensation Long-Term Compensation Name and Principal Position Fiscal Year Salary ($) Bonus ($) Restricted Stock Award ($)( ) Securities Underlying Options* (#) All Other Compensation ($) SET mrlShadeRow Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 SET mrlShadeRow Chief Executive Officer \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 SET mrlShadeRow \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Timothy . Cook , , , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) Chief Operating Officer , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) SET mrlShadeRow Peter Oppenheimer , , , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) SET mrlShadeRow Senior Vice President and , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) SET mrlShadeRow Chief Financial Officer , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) Ronald . Johnson , , , , ( ) \x97 \x97 Senior Vice President, Retail , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , , , , ( ) \x97 \x97 SET mrlShadeRow Philip . Schiller , , , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) SET mrlShadeRow Senior Vice President, , , \x97 \x97 , ( ) SET mrlShadeRow Worldwide Product Marketing , \x97 , , ( ) \x97 , ( ) ( ) The following table reflects the aggregated restricted stock holdings for each the Company\x92 Named Executive Officers the end the fiscal year and the value such restricted stock based $ per share, the closing price the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market September , (the last day trading for the fiscal year). The table has been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . Named Executive Officer Number Unvested Restricted Shares September , (#) Value Unvested Restricted Shares September , ($) Steven . Jobs Timothy . Cook ( ) , , , Peter Oppenheimer ( ) , , , Ronald . Johnson ( ) , , , Philip . Schiller ( ) , , , ( ) Includes , unvested restricted stock units that are part grant , restricted stock units (split-adjusted) made March , . Fifty percent ( %) such units vested March , and the remainder scheduled vest March . Also includes , unvested restricted stock units that were granted December , , and are scheduled SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3628033843_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' vest their entirety March . The restricted stock units not include the right receive dividends prior vesting. ( ) Includes , unvested restricted stock units that are part grant , restricted stock units (split-adjusted) made March , . Fifty percent ( %) such units vested March , and the remainder scheduled vest March . Also includes , unvested restricted stock units that were granted December , , and are scheduled vest their entirety March . The restricted stock units not include the right receive dividends prior vesting. ( ) Includes , unvested restricted stock units that are part grant , restricted stock units (split-adjusted) made March , . Fifty percent ( %) such units vested March , and the remainder scheduled vest March . Also includes , unvested restricted stock units that were granted December , , and are scheduled vest their entirety March . The restricted stock units not include the right receive dividends prior vesting. ( ) March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity Director. March , the Board awarded . Jobs million (split-adjusted) restricted shares the Company\x92 Common Stock, which vested full March . ( ) Market value restricted stock units granted December , (based $ per share, the closing price the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market the day grant). The restricted stock units vest March . ( ) Market value restricted stock units granted March , (based $ per share, the split-adjusted closing price the Company\x92 common stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market the day grant). The restricted stock units granted this date generally vest over four years with % the total number shares vesting each the second and fourth anniversaries the grant date. ( ) Consists matching contributions made the Company accordance with the terms the ( ) plan. Option Grants Last Fiscal Year There were options granted the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year . Grants restricted stock units the Named Executive Officers are disclosed above the Summary Compensation Table. Options Exercised and Year-End Option Holdings The following table provides information about stock option exercises the Named Executive Officers during fiscal year and stock options held each them fiscal year-end. The table has been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3628033843_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES Shares Acquired Exercise Value Realized Number Securities Underlying Unexercised Options Fiscal Year-End (#) Value Unexercised -the-Money Options Fiscal Year-End ($)( ) Name (#) ($) Exercisable Unexercisable Exercisable Unexercisable Steven . Jobs \x97 \x97 , ( ) \x97 $ , , ( ) \x97 Timothy . Cook \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 Peter Oppenheimer , , $ , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 Ronald . Johnson , $ , , , , \x97 ( ) $ , , \x97 Philip . Schiller , $ , , \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 \x97 ( ) Market value securities underlying -the-money options the end fiscal year (based $ per share, the closing price Common Stock the NASDAQ Global Select Market September , ), minus the exercise price. ( ) Consists , options granted . Jobs his capacity director pursuant the Director Stock Option Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible receive option grants under the Director Plan. March , . Jobs voluntarily cancelled all his outstanding options, excluding those granted him his capacity director. ( ) Excludes , restricted stock units granted . Cook that are currently unvested, , restricted stock units granted each Messrs. Oppenheimer and Johnson that are currently unvested, and , restricted stock units granted . Schiller that are currently unvested. Director Compensation The form and amount director compensation are determined the Board after review recommendations made the Nominating Committee. The current practice the Board base substantial portion director\x92 annual retainer equity. , shareholders approved the Director Stock Option Plan (the \x93 Director Plan\x94 ) and , , shares were reserved for issuance thereunder. Pursuant the Director Plan, the Company\x92 non-employee directors are granted option acquire , shares Common Stock upon their initial election the Board (\x93 Initial Options\x94 ). The Initial Options vest and become exercisable three equal annual installments each the first through third anniversaries the grant date. the fourth anniversary non-employee director\x92 initial election the Board and each subsequent anniversary thereafter, the director will entitled receive option acquire , shares Common Stock (\x93 Annual Options\x94 ). Annual Options are fully vested and immediately exercisable their date grant. the end the fiscal year, there were options for , shares outstanding under the Director Plan. Since accepting the position CEO, . Jobs longer eligible for grants under the Director Plan. Non-employee directors also receive $ , annual retainer paid quarterly increments. addition, directors receive two free computer systems per year and are eligible purchase additional equipment discount. Directors not receive any additional consideration for serving committees committee chairperson. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation The current members the Compensation Committee are Messrs. Campbell, Drexler and Gore, none whom are employees the Company and all whom are considered \x93independent\x94 directors under the applicable NASDAQ rules. There were interlocks insider participation between any member the Board Compensation Committee and any member the board directors compensation committee another company. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3628033843_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Arrangements with Named Executive Officers Change Control Arrangements\x97Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units the event \x93change control\x94 the Company, all outstanding options under the Company\x92 stock option plans, except the Director Plan, and all restricted stock units granted after January , , will, unless otherwise determined the plan administrator, become fully exercisable, and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable \x93change control price\x94 and the exercise price. The Director Plan provides that upon \x93change control\x94 the Company, all outstanding options held non-employee directors will automatically become fully exercisable and will cashed out amount equal the difference between the applicable \x93change control price\x94 and the exercise price the options. \x93change control\x94 under these plans generally defined ( ) the acquisition any person % more the combined voting power the Company\x92 outstanding securities, ( ) the occurrence transaction requiring shareholder approval and involving the sale all substantially all the assets the Company the merger the Company with into another corporation. Agreements governing certain restricted stock units granted the Named Executive Officers and other officers prior January , generally provide that the event there \x93change control,\x94 defined the Company\x92 stock option plans, and connection with following such \x93change control,\x94 their employment terminated without \x93Cause\x94 they should resign for \x93Good Reason,\x94 those options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units outstanding that are not yet vested the date such \x93change control\x94 shall become fully vested. Further, these restricted stock unit agreements also provide that, the event the Company terminates the Officer without cause any time, the restricted stock and restricted stock units will vest full. Generally, \x93Cause\x94 defined include felony conviction, willful disclosure confidential information, willful and continued failure perform his her employment duties. \x93Good Reason\x94 includes resignation employment result substantial diminution position duties, adverse change title reduction annual base salary. ", 'item 12. ': "Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The following table sets forth certain information November , (the \x93 Table Date \x94) with respect the beneficial ownership the Company\x92 Common Stock ( ) each person the Company believes beneficially holds more than % the outstanding shares Common Stock; ( ) each director; (iii) each Named Executive Officer listed the Summary Compensation Table under the heading \x93 Executive Compensation; \x94 and ( ) all directors and executive officers group. the Table Date, , , shares Common Stock were issued and outstanding. Unless otherwise indicated, all persons named beneficial owners Common Stock have sole voting power and sole investment power with respect the shares indicated beneficially owned. addition, unless otherwise indicated, all persons named below can reached Apple Computer, Inc., Infinite Loop, Cupertino, . SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3628033843_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' Security Ownership % Holders, Directors, Nominees and Executive Officers Name Beneficial Owner Shares Common Stock Beneficially Owned( ) Percent Common Stock Outstanding Fidelity Investments , , ( ) % AllianceBernstein , , ( ) % Steven . Jobs , , ( ) * William . Campbell , ( ) * Timothy . Cook , ( ) * Millard . Drexler , ( ) * Albert . Gore, . , ( ) * Ronald . Johnson , , ( ) * Arthur . Levinson , ( ) * Peter Oppenheimer , ( ) * Philip . Schiller ( ) * Eric . Schmidt , ( ) * Jerome . York , ( ) * All current executive officers and directors group ( persons) , , ( ) % ( ) Represents shares Common Stock held and options held such individuals that were exercisable the Table Date within days thereafter. This does not include options restricted stock units that vest after days. The share numbers have been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . ( ) Based Form 13G filed February , FMR Corp. FMR Corp. lists its address Devonshire Street, Boston, , such filing. ( ) Based Form 13F filed January , , Barclays Global Investors. Barclays Global Investors lists its address Fremont Street, San Francisco, . ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Jobs has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Campbell has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Excludes , unvested restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Drexler holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock that . Drexler has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Consists , shares Common Stock that . Gore has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that . Johnson has the right acquire exercise stock options and excludes , unvested restricted stock units. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . Levinson holds indirectly and , shares Common Stock that . Levinson has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Excludes , unvested restricted stock units. ( ) Excludes , unvested restricted stock units. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3628033843_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' ( ) Consists , shares Common Stock that . Schmidt holds indirectly. . Schmidt has declined participate the Director Stock Option Plan. ( ) Includes , shares Common Stock that . York has the right acquire exercise stock options. ( ) Includes , , shares Common Stock that executive officers directors have the right acquire exercise stock options. Does not include million unvested restricted stock units. * Represents less than % the issued and outstanding shares Common Stock the Table Date. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth certain information, September , , concerning shares common stock authorized for issuance under all the Company\x92 equity compensation plans. The table has been adjusted reflect the Company\x92 two-for-one stock split February . Number Securities Issued Upon Exercise Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Weighted Average Exercise Price Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights ( ) Number Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected Column ( )) ( ) Equity compensation plans approved shareholders , , $ , , ( ) Equity compensation plans not approved shareholders , , $ \x97 Total equity compensation plans ( ) , , $ , , ( ) This number includes , , shares common stock reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, , shares available for issuance under the Director Stock Option Plan, and , , shares available for issuance under the Employee Stock Plan. The grant , , restricted stock units has been deducted from the number shares available for future issuance. Shares restricted stock and restricted stock units granted after April count against the shares available for grant two shares for every share granted. This amount does not include shares under the Stock Option Plan that was terminated . new options can granted under the Stock Option Plan. ( ) This table does not include , shares Common Stock underlying options assumed connection with prior acquisition company that originally granted those options. These assumed options have weighted average exercise price $ per share. additional options may granted under the assumed plan. ", 'item 13. ': "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions March , the Company entered into Reimbursement Agreement with its CEO, Steve Jobs, for the reimbursement expenses incurred . Jobs the operation his private plane when used for Company business. The Reimbursement Agreement became effective for expenses incurred . Jobs for Company business purposes since took delivery the plane May . The Company recognized total $ , expenses pursuant the Reimbursement Agreement during . , the Company entered into agreement with Pixar sell certain Pixar\x92 short films the iTunes Store. . Jobs was the CEO, Chairman, and large shareholder Pixar. May , , The Walt Disney Company (\x93Disney\x94) acquired Pixar, which resulted Pixar becoming wholly-owned subsidiary Disney. Upon Disney\x92 acquisition Pixar, . Jobs\x92 shares Pixar common stock were SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3628033843_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' exchanged for Disney\x92 common stock and was elected the Disney Board Directors. Royalty expense recognized the Company under the arrangement with Pixar from September , through May , was less than $ million. ", 'item 14. ': "Principal Accountant Fees and Services The following table sets forth the fees accrued paid the Company\x92 independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, during fiscal years and . Audit and Non-Audit Fees Audit Fees $ , , ( ) $ , , Audit-Related Fees , ( ) , Tax Fees , ( ) , All Other Fees \x97 \x97 Total $ , , $ , , ( ) Audit fees relate professional services rendered connection with the audit the Company\x92 annual financial statements and internal control over financial reporting, quarterly review financial statements included the Company\x92 Forms - , and audit services provided connection with other statutory and regulatory filings. Fiscal year also includes fees incurred connection with the Special Committee the Company\x92 Board Directors\x92 investigation into stock option practices, such fees were incurred during . ( ) Audit-related fees primarily relate professional services for the audits employee benefit plans. ( ) tax fees include $ , for professional services rendered connection with tax compliance and preparation relating the Company\x92 expatriate program, tax audits and international tax compliance; and $ , for international tax consulting and planning services. The Company does not engage KPMG perform personal tax services for its executive officers. Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Auditors Prior the enactment the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the \x93 Act \x94), the Company adopted auditor independence policy that banned its auditors from performing non-financial consulting services, such information technology consulting and internal audit services. This auditor independence policy also mandates that the audit and non-audit services and related budget approved the Audit Committee advance, and that the Audit Committee provided with quarterly reporting actual spending. accordance with this policy, all services performed KPMG were pre-approved the Audit Committee. Subsequent the enactment the Act, the Audit Committee met with KPMG further understand the provisions that Act relates auditor independence. KPMG previously rotated the lead audit partner fiscal year , rotated other partners , and will rotate additional partners appropriate compliance with the Act. The Audit Committee will continue monitor the activities undertaken KPMG comply with the Act. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\3628033843_P66532CHE_1584482\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' PART ", 'item 15. ': "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements SET mrlNoTableShading Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. ( ) Index Exhibits SET mrlNoTableShading Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Filing Date/ Period End Date Filed/ Furnished Herewith Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California May , . - -Laws the Company, amended through June , . - SET mrlNoTableShading Certificate Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, amended, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . - Registration Rights Agreement, dated June , among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & . and Morgan Stanley & . Incorporated. - Certificate Determination Preferences Series Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock Apple Computer, Inc. - ** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - - ** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . - - ** Amendment . the Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan. - SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36145252439_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' SET mrlNoTableShading ** Stock Option Plan, amended through November , . - ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended through April , . - ** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. - ** NeXT Computer, Inc. Stock Option Plan, amended. - ** Employee Stock Option Plan, amended through October , . - ** Director Stock Option Plan. - ** Employee Stock Plan, amended through November , . - ** Reimbursement Agreement dated May , and between the Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - ** Option Cancellation and Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated March , and between the Registrant and Steven . Jobs. - ** Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. - - ** Alternative Form Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. - ** Apple Computer, Inc. Performance Bonus Plan dated April , . - ** Form Election Satisfy Tax Withholding with Stock. - ** Form Option Agreements. - * Custom Sales Agreement effective October , between the Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation. - * Purchase Agreement effective August , between the Registrant and Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. - Consulting Agreement dated April , and between the Registrant and . Ruby Consulting Corp. - Code Ethics the Company. - *** Subsidiaries Apple Computer, Inc. *** Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36145252439_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' SET mrlNoTableShading *** Power Attorney (included page this Annual Report Form - ). *** Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Executive Officer. *** Rule13a- ( ) / 15d- ( ) Certification Chief Financial Officer. **** Section Certifications Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. * Confidential Treatment requested certain portions this exhibit. ** Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. *** Filed herewith. **** Furnished herewith. SEQ.= ,FOLIO=' ',FILE=' :\\ \\36145252439_P88412_1583261\\ - - htm',USER='jmsproofassembler', ='Dec : ' ", 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}