{'item 1. ': 'Business GENERAL Microsoft Corporation (the "Company" "Microsoft") was founded partnership and was incorporated . The Company operates one business segment - the development, manufacture, marketing, licensing, and support wide range software products, including operating systems for personal computers (PCs), office machines, and personal information devices; applications programs; and languages; well personal computer books, hardware, and multimedia products. Microsoft( ) products are available for most PCs, including Apple( ) computers and those running Intel( ) microprocessors. Microsoft\' business strategy emphasizes the development broad line microcomputer software products for business and personal use, marketed through multiple channels distribution. The Company divided into three main groups: the Products Group; the Sales and Support Group; and the Operations Group. The Products Group comprised five main divisions, each responsible for particular area software development, technology development, and product marketing. The Personal Operating Systems Division designs and develops operating systems for desktop PCs. The Business Systems Division responsible for enterprise-wide computing solutions, including client-server architectures, networking products, and workgroup applications. The Desktop Applications Division creates productivity applications. The Developer Division creates database products, well programming language products and software development tools. The Consumer Division develops products designed for the home, school, and small business market, including multimedia consumer products and computer input devices (hardware). Microsoft also has Advanced Technology Division, which involved research new technologies for the evolution personal computing and the development innovative consumer software architectures. The Sales and Support Group responsible for building long-term business relationships with customers. This group aligned with one three customer types: end users, organizations, and OEMs (original equipment manufacturers). The Sales and Support group manages the channels that serve those customers. These channels include the . and Canada, Europe, Other International, and OEM. The group also provides support for the Company\' products through Product Support Services, Consulting Services, and Solutions Providers. The Operations Group responsible for managing business operations and overall business planning. This includes the process manufacture and delivery finished goods, licenses, subscriptions, and fulfillment orders; the publishing efforts Microsoft Press; and other corporate functions. PRODUCTS PERSONAL OPERATING SYSTEMS The Personal Operating Systems Division develops desktop operating systems software, which controls PCs, allocates computer memory, schedules the execution applications software, and manages the flow information and communication among the various components the . The Company\' primary proprietary operating systems for PCs are: the Microsoft -DOS( ) operating system, the Microsoft Windows( ) operating system, and Microsoft Windows( ) for Workgroups. -DOS: Microsoft -DOS single-user, single-tasking operating system designed for PCs that utilize Intel microprocessor chips. Since the introduction -DOS the IBM , the Company has enhanced -DOS new technologies are developed and user needs have arisen. -DOS preinstalled OEMs most PCs. WINDOWS: Microsoft Windows graphical operating system for -DOS-based PCs. Microsoft Windows supports high-performance Windows-based applications, and offers ease use and aesthetic appeal, scalable TrueType( ) fonts, built- multimedia functionality, and straightforward integration into corporate computing environments. WINDOWS FOR WORKGROUPS: Windows for Workgroups integrates network and workgroup functionality directly into the Windows operating system. With Windows for Workgroups, users can share files, data, and printers, with ease access and security. WINDOWS : Microsoft developing new personal operating system, designed replace -DOS, Windows, and Windows for Workgroups the Company\' desktop operating system offering. Windows will fully integrated -bit operating system, compatible with existing software applications and capable performing the platform for the next generation applications, games, PCs, and peripherals. BUSINESS SYSTEMS The Business Systems division focused delivering broad range business solutions for organizations. The division develops and markets integrated product line software for creating business solutions, including operating systems for servers and workstations, well applications for business servers. Server applications development divided into the areas databases, connectivity, and workgroup applications. WINDOWS : Microsoft Windows Workstation -bit, multithreaded operating system for client-server computing. capable running Intel , , and Pentium( ) systems and exploiting the next generation microprocessor systems, including most RISC architectures and multiprocessor systems. Windows has the power serve business workstation integrate client-server business applications with existing Windows-based desktop applications technical workstation run high-end engineering scientific applications. The operating system provides integrated mail and networking with remote access, pre-emptively scheduled multitasking, and support for background communication sessions. Windows also provides for the automatic migration information from previously installed versions Windows. The Windows ( ) Server, addition the features Windows Workstation, provides extensive network management features, administration tools, support for Macintosh( ) clients, and fault tolerance. platform for database, communications, and mail servers. SQL SERVER: The Company also offers Microsoft SQL Server. Originally developed cooperatively Microsoft and Sybase, Inc., SQL Server high-performance relational database management system for client-server architectures and personal computer local area networks. SQL Server supports the Structured Query Language, which commonly used language through which application programs communicate with relational databases. The Company provides SQL Server for Windows and SQL Server for . LAN MANAGER: The Company also markets Microsoft LAN Manager, which network operating system offering the user the ability run applications, share files and devices, and perform remote processing true client-server computing environment, from -DOS, Windows, Microsoft Operating System ( ( ) ) workstations. LAN Manager runs , UNIX Systems, and VAX VMS systems. LAN Manager clients and servers can interoperate network with Windows , Windows Server, and Windows for Workgroup systems. MICROSOFT MAIL: The Company markets Microsoft Mail for networks. Microsoft Mail includes client software for the Microsoft Windows, -DOS, Macintosh, and platforms. addition, this workgroup application offers large, corporate users support for multiple network environments. companion product, Microsoft Mail for AppleTalk( ) networks, used companies with Macintosh servers. Microsoft Mail Remote for Windows offers software for remote clients used travelers those working home stay touch with the office mail system. SCHEDULE+: , the Company introduced the first its workgroup applications take advantage the Microsoft Mail messaging system, Microsoft Schedule+. Schedule+ calendaring and scheduling program that helps individuals and groups manage their time and resources. The program searches other workgroup members\' schedules determine meeting availability times, provides invitees the means accept, decline, tentatively accept invitations meetings, and automatically notifies attendees meeting canceled rescheduled. MICROSOFT WORK: The Company announced new architecture which focuses making digital office machines more functional and easier use while creating digital connections between office machines allow information flow freely among many device types throughout the workplace. The Microsoft Work( ) software components are planned incorporated into office devices, making these products easier use, compatible with one another and compatible with PCs running the Microsoft Windows operating system. Partners the Microsoft Work initiative include more than companies representing the office automation, communications, and computer industries. DESKTOP APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE The Desktop Applications Division develops applications software, which provides the microcomputer with instructions for the performance end user tasks. The Company\' desktop applications software designed for use broad class end users, regardless business, industry, market segment. Primary examples desktop applications software are word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation graphics programs. The Company\' desktop applications programs are developed principally for Windows and Macintosh operating systems. MICROSOFT OFFICE Microsoft Office suite software products featuring seamless integration the most commonly used desktop applications. The Company\' suite products based upon document-centric concept, with common commands and extensive use object linking and embedding (OLE) cross-application capabilities. Microsoft Office comes two editions, Standard and Professional. The Standard Edition includes Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, the Microsoft PowerPoint( ) presentation graphics program, and workstation license for Microsoft Mail. The Standard Edition available for Windows and Macintosh operating systems. The Microsoft Office Professional Edition for Windows adds the Microsoft Access( ) database. WORD PROCESSING The Company\' word processing program Microsoft Word. Microsoft Word for the -DOS operating system was introduced . Since its first release, Microsoft Word has been enhanced with innovations that make easier for users everyday word processing tasks. Microsoft Word for Windows provides all the features that users word processing products expect the Windows graphical environment, plus the ability handle graphics, tables, spreadsheet data, charts, and images imported from other Windows-based software programs. The Company also has version for the Macintosh operating system. SPREADSHEETS The Company\' spreadsheet program Microsoft Excel, which available for the Windows and Macintosh operating systems. integrated spreadsheet with database and business graphics capabilities. Microsoft Excel allows full linking and embedding objects that permits users view and edit graphics charts from other Windows-based programs from the worksheet which the object stored. Microsoft Excel graphics capabilities can linked its spreadsheets allow simultaneous changes charts changes are made the spreadsheets. Microsoft Excel was first introduced for the Apple Macintosh. Microsoft Excel for Windows was introduced . GRAPHICS Microsoft PowerPoint presentation graphics program for producing slides, transparencies, overheads, and prints. The Company markets versions PowerPoint for Microsoft Windows and the Macintosh. PROJECT MANAGEMENT Microsoft Project critical path project scheduling and resource allocation program that runs Windows and Macintosh operating systems. The product can perform budgeting, monitoring, and cost estimating tool for large business projects and critical path and schedule planning tool. DEVELOPER PRODUCTS The Developer Division provides software development tools, database products, and technical information Windows developers worldwide. These products and services help independent software developers, corporate developers, solutions developers, and hobbyists create wide variety applications, primarily for Windows and Windows . DATABASE PRODUCTS Database products control the maintenance and utilization structured data organized into set records files. The Company offers database products which span the needs individual users large corporations. These products include Microsoft Access, Microsoft FoxPro( ), Microsoft SQL Server, and variety database connectivity technologies. Microsoft Access relational database management application, also offered conjunction with Microsoft Office, which provides access structured business data. Microsoft FoxPro desktop database development tool which compatible with the industry standard xBase development language. FoxPro supports xBase applications -DOS, Windows, Windows , Macintosh, and UNIX. The Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) product provides access and connectivity read and write various databases from other computer industry vendors from within Microsoft Windows applications. SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT TOOLS AND COMPUTER LANGUAGES Software development tools and computer languages allow software developers write programs particular computer language and translate programs into binary machine-readable set commands that activate and instruct the hardware. The Company develops and markets number software development environments, language compilers, and software testing tools. , the Company shipped Microsoft Visual ++( ) development system for and -bit application development Windows and Windows . The Microsoft Visual Basic( ) programming system for the Windows operating system provides easy access wide variety data sources integrating the Microsoft Access database engine and the ability leverage investments commercial applications through OLE . Additionally, the Company offers professional, highly-integrated development environments the Assembly and FORTRAN languages for -DOS, Windows, and Windows . DEVELOPER INFORMATION PRODUCTS The Company supplies software developers with technical and support information which critical for successful development Windows and Windows . Developers subscribe the Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) information service and receive quarterly updates -ROMs, magazines, and electronically via several -line information services. CONSUMER PRODUCTS The Microsoft Consumer division develops and markets useful, enjoyable, and fundamental software and services for small businesses, schools, and homes. The division developing synergistic product line focusing several categories home software usage, including Personal Tools, Personal Transactions, Family Reference Information, Lifestyle, Entertainment, and Kids. Many the Family Reference Information and Lifestyle titles are available -ROM. The Consumer division also responsible for hardware input devices such the Microsoft Mouse and the Microsoft BallPoint Mouse. PERSONAL TOOLS The Company\' leading Personal Tools products are Microsoft Works and Microsoft Publisher. The Company markets versions Microsoft Works that run the Windows, -DOS, and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Works integrated software program that contains word processing with spell-checking and thesaurus; spreadsheet with charting; and database with reporting capabilities. Microsoft Works allows the easy exchange information from one tool another. large percentage Microsoft Works licensed through the OEM channel addition the finished goods channels. Microsoft Publisher easy- -use, entry-level desktop publishing tool for the Windows operating system. Publisher features PageWizards( ) design assistants, interactive tool that automates the design process custom publications, including newsletters, calendars, greeting cards, and invitations. PERSONAL TRANSACTIONS Microsoft Money financial organization product that provides the user with variety features for tracking personal business expenses. Introduced , Microsoft Money runs the Windows operating system and provides easy tracking account balances, income, and expenses, well quick reporting and charting financial information. FAMILY REFERENCE INFORMATION Reference and information titles include Microsoft Encarta( ) and Microsoft Bookshelf( ), which are both available for Windows and Macintosh operating systems. The Encarta multimedia encyclopedia database blends million words text , articles with wealth innovative, interactive information presented through animations, videos, maps, charts, sounds, and pictures. Bookshelf multimedia reference library for the desktop that integrates seven well-respected and authoritative works one compact disc. source general reference information, Bookshelf includes dictionary, world atlas, world almanac, thesaurus, concise encyclopedia, and two books quotations. LIFESTYLE Lifestyle titles include Microsoft Dinosaurs, Microsoft Dangerous Creatures, Microsoft Ancient Lands, and Microsoft Cinemania( ), interactive guide the movies with entries for , films. Musical titles include Microsoft Beethoven: The Ninth Symphony, Microsoft Stravinsky: The Rite Spring, Microsoft Mozart: Dissonant Quartet, Microsoft Multimedia Strauss for Windows, and Microsoft Musical Instruments. ENTERTAINMENT The Company also has line entertainment products. The Company has marketed Microsoft Flight Simulator( ) since . Licensed from Bruce Artwick Organization Ltd., Microsoft Flight Simulator has been updated several times and available for -DOS and Macintosh operating systems. Microsoft Golf was introduced . Licensed from Access Software, Inc., the product realistic simulation the sport golf for the Windows operating system. KIDS Titles for children include Microsoft Creative Writer and Microsoft Fine Artist. Creative Writer full-featured creative writing and publishing program; Fine Artist comprehensive art program. Both products take advantage the computer\' ability integrate text, high-quality graphics, sound, and animation produce enriching creative experience for children. September , The Company released the first series products based the popular children\' books and television series, Magic School Bus. INPUT DEVICES The Company\' major hardware product the Microsoft Mouse, hand-held pointing device that facilitates editing text the screen. can used with -DOS and Windows operating systems and works with many applications products from Microsoft and other companies. The mouse for the Intel microprocessor-based was first introduced . The mouse sold separately with Microsoft Windows. , the Company began marketing the Microsoft BallPoint( ) Mouse, designed especially for use with laptop and notebook computers. The BallPoint Mouse shipped with universal clamp that fits the keyboards most laptop computers and positioner that allows the user adjust the angle the mouse the keyboard. August , the Company began shipping the Microsoft Natural Keyboard, ergonomically superior keyboard input device. MICROSOFT PRESS Founded , Microsoft Press publishes books about software products from Microsoft and other software developers and about current developments the industry. Books published Microsoft Press typically are written and copyrighted independent authors who submit their manuscripts the Company for publication and who receive royalties based net revenues generated the product. Microsoft Press contracts with independent commercial printer for the manufacturing its books. Publisher\' Resources, Inc. acts the Company\' main fulfillment house the United States, maintaining the majority the inventory Microsoft Press books. Books are marketed independent sales representatives and Microsoft Press sales personnel. Internationally, Microsoft Press has numerous international agreements with publishers for the worldwide distribution its books. Microsoft Press has granted publisher England the right distribute English language versions its books all countries except the United States, Canada, Central and South America, and certain Asian countries. most cases, Microsoft Press provides each publisher with book\' manuscript, and the publisher arranges for its translation and the printing, marketing, and distribution the translated version. LOCALIZATION Microsoft has practice localizing its products, including user messages and documentation, for distribution other countries. Thus, France, for example, all user messages and documentation are French and all monetary references are French francs, and the United Kingdom, monetary references are pounds and user messages and documentation reflect certain British conventions. Various Microsoft products have been localized into more than languages. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Microsoft aligns its sales and marketing people with three customer types: end users, organizations, and OEMs. The Company\' sales and marketing staff builds long-term relationships with these customers Microsoft products. Microsoft has four major channels distribution which deliver product end users: finished goods the . and Canada, Europe, and Other International; and OEM. The end user customer unit has responsibility for activities that target end users who make individual buying decisions for the PCs they use work home. such, the end user unit handles distributor and reseller relationships; reseller sales terms and conditions; channel marketing and promotions; end user marketing programs; support policies; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers. Key products are the Company\' personal operating systems and consumer and desktop applications. The organization customer unit has responsibility for activities that target groups users large, medium, and small organizations. The unit works with Solutions Providers, the Microsoft Consulting Services division, and directly with organizations create enterprise-wide solutions business computing problems. The unit handles computing strategy for organizations; consulting strategy for organizations and Solutions Providers; vertical marketing programs; and large account licensing programs. Additionally, the unit responsible for the technical training Solutions Providers and channel resellers; support policies; and seminars, events, and sales training for resellers and Solutions Providers. Key products are the Company\' business systems, developer software, and software licensed via large corporate account programs. The OEM customer unit includes the sales force which works with original equipment manufacturers who include Microsoft software their PCs. FINISHED GOODS CHANNELS DISTRIBUTORS AND RESELLERS: The Company markets its products the finished goods channels primarily through independent, non-exclusive distributors and resellers. Distributors include Computer , Ingram Micro, and Merisel. Resellers include Corporate Software, Egghead Software, Softmart, and Software Spectrum. Microsoft has network field sales representatives and field support personnel who solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide product training and sales support. LARGE ACCOUNTS: The Company has program designed make easier for large organizations acquire and maintain Microsoft products. The program, Microsoft Select, offers flexible software acquisition, licensing, and maintenance options specially designed meet the needs large multinational organizations. Targeted audiences include technology specialists and influential end users large enterprises. Marketing efforts and fulfillment are generally coordinated with the Microsoft network large account resellers. SOLUTIONS PROVIDERS: The Microsoft Solutions Providers comprehensive support relationship with independent companies who provide integration, development, training, and support for business computing solutions. The program supports value-added resellers, system integrators, consultants, and training organizations. Under this business partnership strategy, the Company provides sales and product information, development services, early access Microsoft products, and customer support tools including priority telephone support, education, and business development support. ensure high-quality technical services for the Company\' products, Microsoft Solutions Providers are required have Microsoft-certified professionals staff. CONSULTING SERVICES: The Company\' Consulting Services Division assists customers using the Company\' computer operating systems, applications, and communications products. The group works with Solutions Providers and helps create enterprise-wide computing solutions for large corporate accounts. DIRECT MARKETING: Microsoft uses direct marketing techniques aimed existing and potential users the Company\' products. Programs are typically directed through the mail, utilizing lists targeted individuals. The Company uses direct marketing promote sales new versions products existing users. Fulfillment product the end user accomplished either direct shipment through resellers. INTERNATIONAL SALES SITES: The Company has established marketing, support, and distribution subsidiaries Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Dubai, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, People\' Republic China, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and Venezuela. The Company\' international operations, both OEM and finished goods, are subject certain risks common foreign operations general, such governmental regulations, import restrictions, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Information with respect international operations and export sales may found page the Annual Report Shareholders, which incorporated herein reference. OEM CHANNEL The Company\' operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right distribute copies Microsoft\' products with the OEMs\' microcomputers. The Company also markets certain language and applications programs OEMs under similar arrangements. addition, the Company markets the Microsoft Mouse and BallPoint Mouse OEMs for distribution buyers the OEMs\' computers. almost all cases, the products are distributed under Microsoft trademarks. The Company has OEM agreements covering one more its products with virtually all the major microcomputer OEMs, including AST Research, DEC, Dell, Compaq, Fujitsu, Gateway , IBM, NEC, Olivetti, Packard Bell, Toshiba, Unisys, and Zenith. ADVERTISING The Company works closely with large advertising and direct marketing firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide packaging, and marketing materials are targeted various end-user segments. The Company utilizes broad consumer medium (television, radio, and business publications) and trade publications. Microsoft also invests heavily direct marketing and customer satisfaction areas. , the Company plans spend more than $ million broad campaign emphasizing Microsoft brand identity. PRODUCT SUPPORT The Company\' Product Support Services group, with locations the . and Microsoft subsidiaries, provides product support coverage options meet the needs users Microsoft products. The Company hires individuals with proven product expertise and provides them with productivity tools, continuous product education and training, and consistent processes deliver quality support for Microsoft products. Coverage options range from standard -charge toll telephone support fee-based offerings providing unlimited # telephone and electronic technical support across all Microsoft products hours per day, days per week. Users have access Microsoft KnowledgeBase, repository over , technical articles that updated regularly with useful information regarding Microsoft products. Microsoft provides access KnowledgeBase via CompuServe( ), GEnie( ), Prodigy, America Online, and Internet. Additionally, the Company offers two information subscription services: Microsoft TechNet and Microsoft Developer Network. supplement alternative direct support, the Company enhances the third party support channel providing Microsoft Solutions Providers with education, training, tools, and support. Microsoft Solutions Providers include Authorized Training Centers, which offer advanced product education and certification Microsoft products; and Authorized Support Centers, which provide wide spectrum multinational support, multivendor support, and integration services. CUSTOMERS described above, Microsoft has three customer types: end users, organizations, and OEMs. The Company believes that most the end users its products are individuals businesses, government agencies, educational institutions, and home. These end users obtain Microsoft products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs, which include certain Microsoft products with their hardware. Notes Financial Statements page the Annual Report Shareholders describe customers that represent more than % the Company\' revenues. The Company\' practice ship its products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from its customers and, consequently, backlog not significant. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The microcomputer software industry characterized rapid technological change, which requires continuous high level expenditures for enhancing existing products and developing new products. The Company committed continued expenditures for research and product development. Most the Company\' software products are developed internally. The Company also purchases technology, licenses intellectual property rights, and oversees third party development for certain products. Product documentation also created internally. Internal development enables Microsoft maintain closer technical control over the products and gives the Company the freedom designate which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. The Company has created substantial body proprietary development tools and has evolved development methodology for creating and enhancing its products. These tools and methodology are also designed simplify product\' portability among different operating systems computers. The Company believes that crucial factor the success new product getting market quickly respond new user need advance hardware design, without compromising product quality. The Company strives become informed possible the earliest possible time about technological advances and changing usage patterns. During fiscal years , , and , the Company spent $ million, $ million, and $ million, respectively, product research and development activities. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, net revenues each those years. COMPETITION The microcomputer software market intensely competitive and subject rapid change. The Company\' competitors include many independent software vendors, such Lotus Development, Oracle, and Novell. These companies generally have narrower focus than the Company product offerings such spreadsheets, relational databases, word processors, and networking software. Large personal computer OEMs are devoting significant resources creating operating systems, notably IBM, Apple Computer, and Sun Microsystems. Microsoft markets its operating systems products OEMs and end users. The Company competes for that business with the large OEMs and joint ventures OEMs, and independent systems software vendors, such Novell. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors marketing microcomputer software are the product\' reputation, features and functions, ease use, reliability, price relative performance, timeliness delivery, and availability and quality support services. There assurance that the Company\' competitive position will not adversely affected one more these factors the future. See "Outlook: Issues and Risks" page the Annual Report Shareholders, which incorporated herein reference. PRODUCT PROTECTION Microsoft regards the intellectual property used its software proprietary and attempts protect with copyrights, patents, trade secret laws, internal and external nondisclosure safeguards, and restrictions disclosure and transfer that are incorporated into its software license agreements. Despite these restrictions, possible for competitors and users copy aspects the Company\' products obtain and use information that the Company regards proprietary. Existing laws protecting intellectual property are helpful but imperfect aids preventing unauthorized copying and use the Company\' products. Monitoring and identifying unauthorized copying and use software can difficult, and software piracy persistent problem for the software industry. Piracy particularly acute international markets. Some the Company\' products distributed internationally use electronic copy protection assist preventing unauthorized copies, but the more typical Company antipiracy strategy work with others the industry secure the passage appropriate laws protecting software, educate the market and persuade users about the benefits legitimate software, and participate selective enforcement actions. MANUFACTURING The Company has manufacturing facilities located the United States, Puerto Rico, and Ireland. The Company\' manufacturing operations involve the duplication disks, assembly purchased parts, and final packaging. Quality control tests are performed purchased parts, duplicated disks, and finished products. The chief materials and components used Microsoft products include disks, books, and multicolor printed materials. The Company often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. The Company has multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components. The Company contracts portion its manufacturing activity third parties. Outside manufacturers produce software products, documentation, and hardware such mouse pointing devices. There are other custom manufacturers the event that products become unavailable from current sources. EMPLOYEES June , , the Company employed , people, , domestically and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales, marketing, and support, , manufacturing and distribution, and , finance and administration. Microsoft\' success highly dependent its ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. date, the Company believes has been successful its efforts recruit qualified employees, but there assurance that will continue successful the future. None the Company\' employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes that relations with its employees are excellent. Item . Properties The Company\' corporate offices consist approximately two million square feet office building space located Redmond, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company constructing , square foot office building, which expected completed the spring . Additionally, construction has started another series office buildings with approximately , square feet space. Occupancy expected the end calendar . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company\' domestic manufacturing and distribution operation consists , square foot facility situated acres nearby Snohomish County, Washington, and , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company\' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes , square foot office building for international localization. The Company owns , square foot office building seven acres land near London, England. Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. Item . Legal Proceedings The Company currently involved litigation with Apple Computer, Inc. and Wang Laboratories, Inc. The information set forth Notes Financial Statements page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the last quarter fiscal . EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT The executive officers the Company September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY William . Gates Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer Executive Vice President, Sales and Support Michael . Maples Executive Vice President, Products Roger . Heinen, . Senior Vice President, Developer Division Frank . (Pete) Higgins Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division Joachim Kempin Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Division Paul . Maritz Senior Vice President, Systems Division Nathan . Myhrvold Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology William . Neukom Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Corp. Secretary Jeffrey . Raikes Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America Bernard . Vergnes Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe James . Allchin Vice President, Business Systems Division Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Raymond . Emery Vice President, Operations Richard . Fade Vice President, Advanced Technology Sales Michel Lacombe Vice President, End User Customer Business Unit, Europe Jonathan . Lazarus Vice President, Strategic Relations Robert . McDowell Vice President, Strategic Enterprise Services Craig . Mundie Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology Michael . Murray Vice President, Human Resources . Christopher Peters Vice President, Office Business Unit Richard . Rashid Vice President, Research Darryl . Rubin Vice President, Software Strategy Brad . Silverberg Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division Rolf . Skoglund Vice President, Organization Customer Business Unit, Europe Christopher . Smith Vice President, International Operations Charles . . Stevens Vice President, Far East Patricia . Stonesifer Vice President, Consumer Division Deborah . Willingham Vice President, Product Support Services . Gates was founder the Company and has been its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board since the Company\' predecessor partnership was incorporated . From , . Gates was partner with Paul Allen, Microsoft\' other founder, the predecessor partnership. . Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Sales and Support February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. Since joining the Company , . Ballmer has also served Assistant the President; Vice President, Corporate Staffs; and Vice President, Marketing. . Maples was named Executive Vice President, Products February . had been Senior Vice President, Applications Software since . . Maples joined the Company Vice President, Applications Software , after years with International Business Machines Corporation. IBM, . Maples was Director Software Strategy from , and prior held variety positions marketing and product development. . Heinen joined Microsoft Senior Vice President, Developer Division January . had been Senior Vice President and General Manager the Macintosh Software Division Apple Computer, Inc. from . Prior , Heinen was corporate consulting engineer for software Digital Equipment Corporation. . Higgins was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since . . Higgins joined Microsoft and has held various positions product and program management, including General Manager the Analysis Business Unit. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Division August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin had served General Manager Microsoft\' German subsidiary since its inception . . Maritz was named Senior Vice President, Systems Division February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft and served General Manager for Networks and XENIX. . Myhrvold was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft and served Director Special Projects prior his promotion. . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined the Company Vice President. . Neukom formerly was member the Seattle law firm Shidler McBroom Gates & Lucas (now Preston Gates & Ellis), the Company\' outside law firm. . Raikes was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January . had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes came Microsoft and has held variety management positions, including General Manager the Office Business Unit. . Vergnes Senior Vice President Microsoft and was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes served General Manager Microsoft\' French subsidiary since its inception . . Allchin was named Vice President, Business Systems Division, effective July . Prior joining Microsoft , . Allchin spent seven years Banyan Systems, Inc., where held numerous positions, most recently Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. . Brown was named Chief Financial Officer August and Vice President, Finance April . had been Treasurer since February , after joining Microsoft January . Previously, . Brown was partner the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, the Company\' independent auditors. . Emery was named Vice President, Operations April . had been General Manager Worldwide Manufacturing since joining Microsoft July . From , . Emery was Divisional General Manager Prestolite Electric, Inc. . Fade was named Vice President, Advanced Technology Sales June . had served Vice President, Far East Region since August . Since joining Microsoft , has served Director, Far East OEM Sales; Director, . OEM Sales; and Group Sales Manager, Microsoft OEM Division. . Lacombe was named Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe April . . Lacombe joined Microsoft retail sales manager the Company\' French subsidiary before being promoted general manager the subsidiary . was appointed Regional Director Southern Europe May . . Lazarus was named Vice President, Strategic Relations April . had served Vice President, Systems Marketing since April . . Lazarus had been General Manager System Software Marketing after having joined Microsoft the Director Systems Strategy and Publisher Microsoft Systems Journal. . McDowell joined Microsoft Vice President, Strategic Enterprise Services March . . McDowell came Microsoft from Ernst & Young, where was partner and National Director Strategic Business Systems. From , was partner with Arthur Young. . Mundie was named Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group December . Previously, . Mundie had been CEO Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy May , and was liquidated. . Murray was named Vice President, Human Resources and Administration December . joined Microsoft General Manager the Network Business Unit. Previously, . Murray was President Dataline, systems integrator. also held general management positions Hewlett-Packard, Convergent Technologies, and Apple Computer. . Peters was named Vice President, Office Product Unit, effective November . Prior his promotion, was general manager the Word business unit. . Peters was involved the development several key products since joining Microsoft . . Rashid was named Vice President, Research, effective July . Since joining Microsoft , was director research. . Rashid was Professor Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University, where was the faculty since . . Rubin was named Vice President, Software Strategy, effective February . . Rubin joined Microsoft and prior his promotion held several management positions the Network Development Division, most recently Chief Architect. . Silverberg joined Microsoft August Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division. From until joining Microsoft, . Silverberg served Vice President, Engineering for Borland International, Inc. . Skoglund was named Vice President, Organization Customer Unit, Europe April . . Skoglund joined Microsoft general manager the Company\' Swedish subsidiary. was appointed Regional Director Northern Europe May . . Smith was named Vice President, International Operations, effective July . From , when . Smith joined Microsoft, until his promotion, served Senior Director, European Operations. . Stevens was named Vice President, Far East, effective June . had been general manager worldwide business strategy for the sales and support divisions and before that general manager database products. . Stevens joined Microsoft . . Stonesifer was named Vice President, Consumer Division June . She had been Vice President, Support since and General Manager Product Support Services since . Previously, she was General Manager Microsoft Canada and before that, General Manager for Microsoft Press. Prior joining Microsoft , . Stonesifer was with Que Corporation, publisher books for computer users. . Willingham was named Vice President, Product Support Services April . She joined Microsoft general manager end user support, and was later responsible for worldwide technical support strategy and all . technical support personnel and operations. Prior joining Microsoft, . Willingham was director IBM\' Worldwide Manufacturing Technical Center its application business systems unit. PART Item . Market for Registrant\' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. Item . Selected Financial Data The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The information set forth pages , , , , , , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements and supplementary financial information for the Company and report independent auditors set forth pages , , , , and through the Annual Report Shareholders are incorporated herein reference: Income Statements for each the three years the period ended June , Balance Sheets June , and Statements Stockholders\' Equity for each the three years the period ended June , Cash Flows Statements for each the three years the period ended June , Report Independent Auditors Notes Financial Statements Quarterly Financial And Market Information Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held October , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Information with respect Executive Officers may found pages through hereof, under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant." Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Documents filed part Form - . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. . Financial Statement Schedules Schedule Page Number Description Number -------- ----------- ------ Amounts Receivable from Related Parties and Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees other than Related Parties VIII Valuation and Qualifying Accounts Supplementary Income Statement Information The independent auditors\' report with respect the above-listed financial statement schedules appears page this report Form - . Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. . Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Annual Report Shareholders . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule ( ) Documents filed part Form - (Continued) . Exhibit Listing (Continued) Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Year Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , ________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . SCHEDULE --- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES ( thousands) Balance Balance Additions Deductions End Period Beginning --------------------- ------------------------ -------------------- Period Principal Interest Collected Written Off Current Long-term ------------ --------- -------- --------- ----------- ------- --------- Year ended June , : Brad . Silverberg ( ) $ $ -- $ $ $ -- $ -- $ Paul . Leach ( ) -- -- -- -- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== Year ended June , : Brad . Silverberg ( ) $ $ -- $ $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Craig . Mundie ( ) -- -- -- -- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== Year ended June , : Craig . Mundie ( ) $ $ -- $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== ____________________ ( ) Consisted promissory note for $ , dated August , , bearing interest % simple interest during the first year and % during the second year. For the third year the interest rate was %. The note was paid February , . ( ) Consisted -day interest free promissory note for $ , dated September , . After days, the note bore interest % per annum simple interest and was paid December , . ( ) Consists promissory note for $ , dated February , which bears interest the rate % per annum simple interest. The note due five years, with accelerated payments accordance with stock option exercise schedule. Schedule VIII --- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ( millions) Balance Charged Charged Balance Beginning Costs and Other End Period Expenses Accounts Deductions Period ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- --------- Allowance for doubtful accounts: Year ended June , ...... $ $ -- $ $ Year ended June , ...... -- Year ended June , ...... -- SCHEDULE --- SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION ( ) ( millions) Charged Costs and Expenses Year Ended June ----------------------------- ---- ---- ---- Royalties.................. $ $ $ Advertising costs.............. - ------------------- ( ) The amounts for maintenance and repairs; amortization intangible assets, preoperating costs and similar deferrals; and taxes other than payroll and income taxes are not reported these items did not exceed % total revenues. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\' REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the financial statements Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and for each the three years the period ended June , , and have issued our report thereon dated July , ; such financial statements and report are included your Annual Report Shareholders and are incorporated herein reference. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries, listed Item ( ) . These financial statement schedules are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion based our audits. our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / DELOITTE & TOUCHE Seattle, Washington July , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Michael . Brown --------------------------------- Michael . Brown, Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors - ---------------------------------- amd Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director - ---------------------------------- Paul . Allen / / Richard . Hackborn Director - ---------------------------------- Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director - ---------------------------------- David . Marquardt / / Robert . \'Brien Director - ---------------------------------- Robert . \'Brien / / . . Reed, . Director - ---------------------------------- . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director - ---------------------------------- Jon . Shirley / / Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial - ---------------------------------- Officer (Principal Financial and Michael . Brown Accounting Officer) MICROSOFT CORPORATION Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Annual Report Shareholders . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Year Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , ________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': "Properties The Company' corporate offices consist approximately two million square feet office building space located Redmond, Washington. There are two sites that total approximately acres land. The Company constructing , square foot office building, which expected completed the spring . Additionally, construction has started another series office buildings with approximately , square feet space. Occupancy expected the end calendar . The Company owns all its corporate campus. The Company' domestic manufacturing and distribution operation consists , square foot facility situated acres nearby Snohomish County, Washington, and , square foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rican facility, which began operation April , leased under -year lease, with option renew for additional years. The Company' European manufacturing operation consists , square foot facility situated acres Dublin, Ireland. The Ireland site also includes , square foot office building for international localization. The Company owns , square foot office building seven acres land near London, England. Les Ulis, France, the Company owns , square foot office building four acres land. addition, the Company leases office space numerous locations the United States and many other countries. ", 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company currently involved litigation with Apple Computer, Inc. and Wang Laboratories, Inc. The information set forth Notes Financial Statements page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 4. ': "Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the last quarter fiscal . EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT The executive officers the Company September , were follows: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY William . Gates Chairman the Board; Chief Executive Officer Steven . Ballmer Executive Vice President, Sales and Support Michael . Maples Executive Vice President, Products Roger . Heinen, . Senior Vice President, Developer Division Frank . (Pete) Higgins Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division Joachim Kempin Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Division Paul . Maritz Senior Vice President, Systems Division Nathan . Myhrvold Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology William . Neukom Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs; Corp. Secretary Jeffrey . Raikes Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America Bernard . Vergnes Vice President, Microsoft; President, Microsoft Europe James . Allchin Vice President, Business Systems Division Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Raymond . Emery Vice President, Operations Richard . Fade Vice President, Advanced Technology Sales Michel Lacombe Vice President, End User Customer Business Unit, Europe Jonathan . Lazarus Vice President, Strategic Relations Robert . McDowell Vice President, Strategic Enterprise Services Craig . Mundie Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology Michael . Murray Vice President, Human Resources . Christopher Peters Vice President, Office Business Unit Richard . Rashid Vice President, Research Darryl . Rubin Vice President, Software Strategy Brad . Silverberg Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division Rolf . Skoglund Vice President, Organization Customer Business Unit, Europe Christopher . Smith Vice President, International Operations Charles . . Stevens Vice President, Far East Patricia . Stonesifer Vice President, Consumer Division Deborah . Willingham Vice President, Product Support Services . Gates was founder the Company and has been its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board since the Company' predecessor partnership was incorporated . From , . Gates was partner with Paul Allen, Microsoft' other founder, the predecessor partnership. . Ballmer was named Executive Vice President, Sales and Support February . had been Senior Vice President, Systems Software since . From until , . Ballmer served Vice President, Systems Software. Since joining the Company , . Ballmer has also served Assistant the President; Vice President, Corporate Staffs; and Vice President, Marketing. . Maples was named Executive Vice President, Products February . had been Senior Vice President, Applications Software since . . Maples joined the Company Vice President, Applications Software , after years with International Business Machines Corporation. IBM, . Maples was Director Software Strategy from , and prior held variety positions marketing and product development. . Heinen joined Microsoft Senior Vice President, Developer Division January . had been Senior Vice President and General Manager the Macintosh Software Division Apple Computer, Inc. from . Prior , Heinen was corporate consulting engineer for software Digital Equipment Corporation. . Higgins was named Senior Vice President, Desktop Applications Division March . had been Vice President, Desktop Applications Division since and previously, Vice President, Analysis Business Unit since . . Higgins joined Microsoft and has held various positions product and program management, including General Manager the Analysis Business Unit. . Kempin was named Senior Vice President, OEM Sales Division August . had been Vice President, OEM Sales since . . Kempin had served General Manager Microsoft' German subsidiary since its inception . . Maritz was named Senior Vice President, Systems Division February . had been Vice President, Advanced Operating Systems since . . Maritz joined Microsoft and served General Manager for Networks and XENIX. . Myhrvold was named Senior Vice President, Advanced Technology July . had been Vice President, Advanced Technology and Business Development since . . Myhrvold joined Microsoft and served Director Special Projects prior his promotion. . Neukom was named Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs February . joined the Company Vice President. . Neukom formerly was member the Seattle law firm Shidler McBroom Gates & Lucas (now Preston Gates & Ellis), the Company' outside law firm. . Raikes was named Senior Vice President, Microsoft North America January . had been Vice President, Office Systems since . . Raikes came Microsoft and has held variety management positions, including General Manager the Office Business Unit. . Vergnes Senior Vice President Microsoft and was named President, Microsoft Europe April . had been Vice President, Europe since . . Vergnes served General Manager Microsoft' French subsidiary since its inception . . Allchin was named Vice President, Business Systems Division, effective July . Prior joining Microsoft , . Allchin spent seven years Banyan Systems, Inc., where held numerous positions, most recently Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. . Brown was named Chief Financial Officer August and Vice President, Finance April . had been Treasurer since February , after joining Microsoft January . Previously, . Brown was partner the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, the Company' independent auditors. . Emery was named Vice President, Operations April . had been General Manager Worldwide Manufacturing since joining Microsoft July . From , . Emery was Divisional General Manager Prestolite Electric, Inc. . Fade was named Vice President, Advanced Technology Sales June . had served Vice President, Far East Region since August . Since joining Microsoft , has served Director, Far East OEM Sales; Director, . OEM Sales; and Group Sales Manager, Microsoft OEM Division. . Lacombe was named Vice President, End User Customer Unit, Europe April . . Lacombe joined Microsoft retail sales manager the Company' French subsidiary before being promoted general manager the subsidiary . was appointed Regional Director Southern Europe May . . Lazarus was named Vice President, Strategic Relations April . had served Vice President, Systems Marketing since April . . Lazarus had been General Manager System Software Marketing after having joined Microsoft the Director Systems Strategy and Publisher Microsoft Systems Journal. . McDowell joined Microsoft Vice President, Strategic Enterprise Services March . . McDowell came Microsoft from Ernst & Young, where was partner and National Director Strategic Business Systems. From , was partner with Arthur Young. . Mundie was named Vice President, Advanced Consumer Technology July . joined Microsoft General Manager, Advanced Consumer Technology Group December . Previously, . Mundie had been CEO Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, which declared bankruptcy May , and was liquidated. . Murray was named Vice President, Human Resources and Administration December . joined Microsoft General Manager the Network Business Unit. Previously, . Murray was President Dataline, systems integrator. also held general management positions Hewlett-Packard, Convergent Technologies, and Apple Computer. . Peters was named Vice President, Office Product Unit, effective November . Prior his promotion, was general manager the Word business unit. . Peters was involved the development several key products since joining Microsoft . . Rashid was named Vice President, Research, effective July . Since joining Microsoft , was director research. . Rashid was Professor Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University, where was the faculty since . . Rubin was named Vice President, Software Strategy, effective February . . Rubin joined Microsoft and prior his promotion held several management positions the Network Development Division, most recently Chief Architect. . Silverberg joined Microsoft August Vice President, Personal Operating Systems Division. From until joining Microsoft, . Silverberg served Vice President, Engineering for Borland International, Inc. . Skoglund was named Vice President, Organization Customer Unit, Europe April . . Skoglund joined Microsoft general manager the Company' Swedish subsidiary. was appointed Regional Director Northern Europe May . . Smith was named Vice President, International Operations, effective July . From , when . Smith joined Microsoft, until his promotion, served Senior Director, European Operations. . Stevens was named Vice President, Far East, effective June . had been general manager worldwide business strategy for the sales and support divisions and before that general manager database products. . Stevens joined Microsoft . . Stonesifer was named Vice President, Consumer Division June . She had been Vice President, Support since and General Manager Product Support Services since . Previously, she was General Manager Microsoft Canada and before that, General Manager for Microsoft Press. Prior joining Microsoft , . Stonesifer was with Que Corporation, publisher books for computer users. . Willingham was named Vice President, Product Support Services April . She joined Microsoft general manager end user support, and was later responsible for worldwide technical support strategy and all . technical support personnel and operations. Prior joining Microsoft, . Willingham was director IBM' Worldwide Manufacturing Technical Center its application business systems unit. PART ", 'item 5. ': "Market for Registrant' Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. ", 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth page the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 7. ': "Management' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The information set forth pages , , , , , , and the Annual Report Shareholders incorporated herein reference. ", 'item 7a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 8. ': "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The following financial statements and supplementary financial information for the Company and report independent auditors set forth pages , , , , and through the Annual Report Shareholders are incorporated herein reference: Income Statements for each the three years the period ended June , Balance Sheets June , and Statements Stockholders' Equity for each the three years the period ended June , Cash Flows Statements for each the three years the period ended June , Report Independent Auditors Notes Financial Statements Quarterly Financial And Market Information ", 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosures None. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held October , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Information with respect Executive Officers may found pages through hereof, under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant." Item . Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Documents filed part Form - . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. . Financial Statement Schedules Schedule Page Number Description Number -------- ----------- ------ Amounts Receivable from Related Parties and Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees other than Related Parties VIII Valuation and Qualifying Accounts Supplementary Income Statement Information The independent auditors\' report with respect the above-listed financial statement schedules appears page this report Form - . Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. . Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Annual Report Shareholders . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule ( ) Documents filed part Form - (Continued) . Exhibit Listing (Continued) Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Year Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , ________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . SCHEDULE --- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES ( thousands) Balance Balance Additions Deductions End Period Beginning --------------------- ------------------------ -------------------- Period Principal Interest Collected Written Off Current Long-term ------------ --------- -------- --------- ----------- ------- --------- Year ended June , : Brad . Silverberg ( ) $ $ -- $ $ $ -- $ -- $ Paul . Leach ( ) -- -- -- -- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== Year ended June , : Brad . Silverberg ( ) $ $ -- $ $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Craig . Mundie ( ) -- -- -- -- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== Year ended June , : Craig . Mundie ( ) $ $ -- $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== ____________________ ( ) Consisted promissory note for $ , dated August , , bearing interest % simple interest during the first year and % during the second year. For the third year the interest rate was %. The note was paid February , . ( ) Consisted -day interest free promissory note for $ , dated September , . After days, the note bore interest % per annum simple interest and was paid December , . ( ) Consists promissory note for $ , dated February , which bears interest the rate % per annum simple interest. The note due five years, with accelerated payments accordance with stock option exercise schedule. Schedule VIII --- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ( millions) Balance Charged Charged Balance Beginning Costs and Other End Period Expenses Accounts Deductions Period ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- --------- Allowance for doubtful accounts: Year ended June , ...... $ $ -- $ $ Year ended June , ...... -- Year ended June , ...... -- SCHEDULE --- SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION ( ) ( millions) Charged Costs and Expenses Year Ended June ----------------------------- ---- ---- ---- Royalties.................. $ $ $ Advertising costs.............. - ------------------- ( ) The amounts for maintenance and repairs; amortization intangible assets, preoperating costs and similar deferrals; and taxes other than payroll and income taxes are not reported these items did not exceed % total revenues. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS\' REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the financial statements Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and for each the three years the period ended June , , and have issued our report thereon dated July , ; such financial statements and report are included your Annual Report Shareholders and are incorporated herein reference. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries, listed Item ( ) . These financial statement schedules are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion based our audits. our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / DELOITTE & TOUCHE Seattle, Washington July , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Michael . Brown --------------------------------- Michael . Brown, Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors - ---------------------------------- amd Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director - ---------------------------------- Paul . Allen / / Richard . Hackborn Director - ---------------------------------- Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director - ---------------------------------- David . Marquardt / / Robert . \'Brien Director - ---------------------------------- Robert . \'Brien / / . . Reed, . Director - ---------------------------------- . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director - ---------------------------------- Jon . Shirley / / Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial - ---------------------------------- Officer (Principal Financial and Michael . Brown Accounting Officer) MICROSOFT CORPORATION Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Annual Report Shareholders . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors\' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Year Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , ________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information with respect Directors may found under the caption "Election Directors and Management Information" pages and the Company\' Proxy Statement dated September , , for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held October , (the "Proxy Statement"). Such information incorporated herein reference. Information with respect Executive Officers may found pages through hereof, under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant." ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions "Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation" pages through and "Information Regarding the Board and its Committees" page incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The information set forth under the caption "Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" page the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 14. ': "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) Documents filed part Form - . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth under Item this report Form - are incorporated herein reference. . Financial Statement Schedules Schedule Page Number Description Number -------- ----------- ------ Amounts Receivable from Related Parties and Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees other than Related Parties VIII Valuation and Qualifying Accounts Supplementary Income Statement Information The independent auditors' report with respect the above-listed financial statement schedules appears page this report Form - . Financial statement schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. . Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Annual Report Shareholders . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors' Consent . Financial Data Schedule ( ) Documents filed part Form - (Continued) . Exhibit Listing (Continued) Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Year Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , ________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Reports Form - reports Form - were filed during the last quarter fiscal . SCHEDULE --- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES ( thousands) Balance Balance Additions Deductions End Period Beginning --------------------- ------------------------ -------------------- Period Principal Interest Collected Written Off Current Long-term ------------ --------- -------- --------- ----------- ------- --------- Year ended June , : Brad . Silverberg ( ) $ $ -- $ $ $ -- $ -- $ Paul . Leach ( ) -- -- -- -- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== Year ended June , : Brad . Silverberg ( ) $ $ -- $ $ $ -- $ -- $ -- Craig . Mundie ( ) -- -- -- -- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- $ $ $ $ $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== Year ended June , : Craig . Mundie ( ) $ $ -- $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ ==== ==== === ==== ==== ==== ==== ____________________ ( ) Consisted promissory note for $ , dated August , , bearing interest % simple interest during the first year and % during the second year. For the third year the interest rate was %. The note was paid February , . ( ) Consisted -day interest free promissory note for $ , dated September , . After days, the note bore interest % per annum simple interest and was paid December , . ( ) Consists promissory note for $ , dated February , which bears interest the rate % per annum simple interest. The note due five years, with accelerated payments accordance with stock option exercise schedule. Schedule VIII --- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS ( millions) Balance Charged Charged Balance Beginning Costs and Other End Period Expenses Accounts Deductions Period ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- --------- Allowance for doubtful accounts: Year ended June , ...... $ $ -- $ $ Year ended June , ...... -- Year ended June , ...... -- SCHEDULE --- SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION ( ) ( millions) Charged Costs and Expenses Year Ended June ----------------------------- ---- ---- ---- Royalties.................. $ $ $ Advertising costs.............. - ------------------- ( ) The amounts for maintenance and repairs; amortization intangible assets, preoperating costs and similar deferrals; and taxes other than payroll and income taxes are not reported these items did not exceed % total revenues. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the financial statements Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and for each the three years the period ended June , , and have issued our report thereon dated July , ; such financial statements and report are included your Annual Report Shareholders and are incorporated herein reference. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries, listed Item ( ) . These financial statement schedules are the responsibility the Company' management. Our responsibility express opinion based our audits. our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / DELOITTE & TOUCHE Seattle, Washington July , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, September , . MICROSOFT CORPORATION / / Michael . Brown --------------------------------- Michael . Brown, Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated September , . SIGNATURE TITLE --------- ----- / / William . Gates Chairman the Board Directors - ---------------------------------- amd Chief Executive Officer William . Gates / / Paul . Allen Director - ---------------------------------- Paul . Allen / / Richard . Hackborn Director - ---------------------------------- Richard . Hackborn / / David . Marquardt Director - ---------------------------------- David . Marquardt / / Robert . 'Brien Director - ---------------------------------- Robert . 'Brien / / . . Reed, . Director - ---------------------------------- . . Reed, . / / Jon . Shirley Director - ---------------------------------- Jon . Shirley / / Michael . Brown Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial - ---------------------------------- Officer (Principal Financial and Michael . Brown Accounting Officer) MICROSOFT CORPORATION Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- Restated Articles Incorporation Bylaws Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and First Interstate Bank Washington ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Computation Earnings Per Share . Annual Report Shareholders . Subsidiaries . Independent Auditors' Consent . Financial Data Schedule Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the Three Years Ended June , Financial Statements for the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus Plan for the Year Ended December , and the Nine Months Ended December , ________________ ( ) Incorporated reference Registration Statement - Form - . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - For The Fiscal Year Ended June , ", 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}