{'item 1. ': 'Business This Annual Report Form - and the documents incorporated herein reference contain forward-looking statements based expectations, estimates and projections the date this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed forward-looking statements. See Item Part \x97\x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Forward-Looking Statements.\x94 General Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy. endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. Through our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs, enable businesses and individuals sell virtually anything Amazon com\x92 millions customers. and other sellers offer millions new, used, refurbished, and collectible items, categories such : \x95 Apparel, shoes and accessories \x95 Home, garden, and outdoor living products \x95 Baby care products \x95 Jewelry and watches \x95 Books \x95 Kitchenware and housewares \x95 Camera and photography \x95 Magazine subscriptions \x95 Cell phones and service \x95 Music \x95 Computers and computer add-ons \x95 Office products \x95 Consumer electronics \x95 Software \x95 DVD\x92 and videos \x95 Sports & Outdoors \x95 Gourmet food \x95 Tools and hardware \x95 Health and personal care \x95 Toys operate six global websites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Segment Information.\x94 Amazon com was incorporated the state Washington and reincorporated the state Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located Seattle, Washington. completed our initial public offering May and our common stock listed the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 used herein, \x93Amazon com,\x94 \x93 ,\x94 \x93our\x94 and similar terms include Amazon com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Business Strategy Our business strategy offer our customers low prices, convenience, and wide selection merchandise. Price endeavor offer our customers the lowest prices possible. strive improve our operating efficiencies and leverage our fixed costs that can afford pass along these savings our customers the form lower prices. also enable third-party sellers offer products our site, many instances alongside our product selection, and set their own retail prices. Convenience Our software engineers, computer scientists, and management team focus continuous innovation provide further convenience for our customers. promote brand loyalty and repeat purchases providing feature-rich content, secure and trusted transaction environment, easy- -use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. Key features our websites include editorial and customer reviews; manufacturer product information; Web pages tailored individual preferences, such recommendations and notifications; -Click ® technology; secure payment systems; browsing; searching; and the ability view selected interior pages and search the entire contents many the books offer with our \x93Look Inside the Book\x94 and \x93Search Inside the Book\x94 features. Our community online users also creates feature-rich content, including online recommendation lists, wish lists, and wedding and baby registries. endeavor fulfill customer orders quickly, and provide intuitive self-service features that assist our customers when they have questions. communicate our fulfillment promise several ways, such presenting - -date inventory availability information, delivery date estimates, and options for expedited delivery, well delivery shipment notifications. Additionally, customers can use the \x93your account\x94 website features track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery instructions and payment options, combine orders, edit gift options, and return items. the event our customers would like contact customer service, our representatives may contacted -mail phone. fulfill customer orders number ways, including through our six . and three international fulfillment centers; through fulfillment centers operated under -sourcing arrangements, including our fulfillment center supporting www amazon ; through outsourced fulfillment providers, including our fulfillment provider supporting www amazon ; and through other third-party fulfillment arrangements. operate six customer service centers and have several -sourcing arrangements provide additional customer service. See Item Part , \x93Properties,\x94 for additional information about fulfillment centers and customer service locations. Selection provide the widest possible selection for our customers, have designed our websites enable millions unique products sold and third parties across many product categories. Amazon com Retail sell broad range products that purchase from manufacturers and distributors and deliver our customers. Additionally, through our Syndicated Stores program, utilize our -commerce services, features, and technologies sell our products through other businesses\x92 websites. Under our syndicated stores arrangements, generally own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns sales commission product sales. Third-Party Sellers offer Amazon Marketplace and Merchants@ programs that enable third parties integrate their products our websites, allow customers shop for products owned third parties using our features and technologies, and allow individuals complete transactions that include multiple sellers single checkout process. are not the seller record these third-party seller transactions, but instead earn fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, some combination thereof. Amazon Marketplace generally serves individuals and small businesses, enabling them offer their products for sale our websites alongside our products products made available other third-party sellers. Our Merchants@ program generally serves larger companies and primarily concentrated expanding the selection new products available our websites. also sometimes offer fulfillment-related services under our Merchants@ program. Other Services Through our Merchant com program utilize our -commerce services, features, and technologies operate another business\x92 website, sell its products under its brand name and URL, and sometimes offer fulfillment services ( example www target com ). also provide technology services, such search, browse and personalization, and other marketing and promotional services, such our -branded credit card. Marketing and Promotion Our marketing strategy designed strengthen and broaden the Amazon com brand name, increase customer traffic our websites, encourage customers shop many product categories, promote repeat purchases, and develop incremental product and service revenue opportunities. First and foremost, our best marketing efforts are focused improving the customer experience, which drives word- -mouth promotion and repeat customer visits. also deliver personalized Web pages and services and employ variety media, business development activities, and promotional methods achieve these goals. employ various means online and traditional advertising, including sponsored links, -mail, print media, and direct marketing, television, and other offline advertising. also participate cooperative advertising arrangements with certain our vendors. Our Associates program directs customers our websites enabling associated websites make our products available their audiences with fulfillment performed . addition, offer everyday free shipping option www amazon com and www amazon for certain orders that exceed specific amount, and offer similar options for our internationally-focused websites. Although marketing expenses not include our free shipping offers promotional offers, view such offers effective marketing tool. Technology Using combination our own proprietary technologies and commercially available, licensed technologies, have implemented numerous features that simplify and improve the customer shopping experience, enable third parties sell our platform, and facilitate our fulfillment and customer service operations. Our current strategy focus our development efforts creating and enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that unique our business, and license acquire commercially-developed technology for other applications where available and appropriate. use set applications for accepting and validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with suppliers, managing and assigning inventory customer orders, and ensuring proper shipment products customers. Our transaction-processing systems handle millions items, number different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests, and multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer choose whether receive single several shipments based availability and track the progress each order. These applications also manage the process accepting, authorizing, and charging customer credit cards. Competition The environment for our products and services intensely competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: ( ) physical-world retailers, catalog retailers, publishers, distributors and manufacturers our products, many which possess significant brand awareness, sales volume, and customer bases, and some which currently sell, may sell, products services through the Internet, mail order, direct marketing; ( ) other online -commerce sites; ( ) number indirect competitors, including media companies, Web portals, and Web search engines that are involved online commerce, either directly collaboration with other retailers; and ( ) companies that provide -commerce services, including website developers and third-party fulfillment and customer-service providers. believe that the principal competitive factors our market segments include selection, price, availability, convenience, information, discovery, brand recognition, personalized services, accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed fulfillment, ease use, and ability adapt changing conditions, well our customers\x92 overall trust the entire experience transactions with facilitated behalf third-party sellers. For services offer business and individual sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality our services and tools and the speed performance for our services. the market segments which operate continue grow, other companies may also enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Intellectual Property regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. have registered number domain names and been issued number trademarks, service marks, patents, and copyrights . and foreign governmental authorities. also have applied for the registration other trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights the . and internationally, and have filed . and international patent applications covering certain our proprietary technology. have licensed the past, and expect that may license the future, certain our proprietary rights, such trademarks, patents, technologies copyrighted materials, third parties. Seasonality Our business affected seasonality, which historically has resulted higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Employees employed approximately , full-time and part-time employees December , . However, employment levels fluctuate due seasonal factors affecting our business. also employ independent contractors and temporary personnel seasonal basis. None our employees represented labor union and consider our employee relations good. Competition for qualified personnel our industry intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. believe that our future success will depend part our continued ability attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. Available Information Our investor relations website www amazon com . make available this website under \x93Financial Documents,\x94 free charge, our annual reports Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - and amendments those reports soon reasonably practicable after electronically file furnish such materials the . Securities and Exchange Commission (\x93SEC\x94). Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results The following risk factors and other information included this Annual Report should carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known that currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. any the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could materially adversely affected. Have Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses have incurred significant net losses since began doing business. December , , had accumulated deficit $ billion and our stockholders\x92 equity was deficit $ billion. have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception, and although earned small amount net income , may incur losses again the future. Have Significant Indebtedness December , , had long-term indebtedness $ billion. make annual semi-annual interest payments the indebtedness under our two convertible notes, which are due and . Although made debt principal reduction payments , may incur substantial additional debt the future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, other purposes the future, needed; plan for, react , changes technology and our business and competition; and react the event economic downturn. There guarantee that will able meet our debt service obligations. are unable generate sufficient cash flow obtain funds for required payments, fail comply with covenants our indebtedness, will default. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 Face Intense Competition The market segments which compete are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and have many competitors different industries, including both the retail and -commerce services industries. Many our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than have. They may able secure merchandise from vendors more favorable terms and may able adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors both the retail and -commerce services industries also may able devote more resources technology development and marketing than . Competition the -commerce channel may intensify. Other companies the retail and -commerce service industries may enter into business combinations alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants those segments may expand into the market segments which operate. addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature online retail. The nature the Internet electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, both. Our Business Could Suffer Are Unsuccessful Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and other business relationships with other companies. have entered into agreements provide -commerce services other businesses and plan enter into similar agreements the future, including part our Merchants@, Syndicated Stores, and Merchant com initiatives. Under such agreements, may perform services such : providing our technology services such search, browse, and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals offer products services through our websites; and powering third-party websites, either with without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments , which may constrain the number such agreements are able enter into and may affect our ability integrate and deliver services under the relevant agreements. fail implement, maintain, and develop successfully the various components such commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing third party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not viable. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales that the other company makes. Therefore, the other business\x92 website product services offering not successful, may not receive all the compensation are otherwise due under the agreement may not able maintain the agreement. Moreover, may not able succeed our plans enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances favorable terms. our commercial agreements expire otherwise terminate, may unable renew replace these agreements comparable terms, all. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. Some our agreements involve high margin services, such marketing and promotional agreements, and such agreements expire they may replaced, all, agreements involving lower margin services. addition, several past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable meet their obligations . may the future enter into further amendments these agreements encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations , which could adversely affect our operating results. Our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 impairment other relationships; \x95 variability revenue and income from entering into, amending, terminating such agreements relationships; and \x95 difficulty integrating under the commercial agreements. Our present and future acquisitions, business combinations, joint ventures, and investments create additional risks such : \x95 disruption our ongoing business, including loss management focus existing businesses; \x95 difficulty assimilating the operations, technology, and personnel combined companies; \x95 problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; and \x95 additional operating losses and expenses acquired businesses. Our Investments and the Consideration Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Number Risks the past, have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances whereby perform certain -commerce services, and exchange for our services received cash, equity securities these companies, and additional benefits, such website traffic. The amount compensation receive under certain these agreements dependent the volume sales made the other company. some cases, have also made separate investments the other company making cash payment exchange for equity securities that company. may make similar investments the future. the extent have received equity securities compensation, fluctuations the value such securities will affect our ultimate realization amounts have received compensation for services. the past, amended several our commercial agreements reduce future cash proceeds received , shorten the term our commercial agreements, both. may the future enter into further amendments our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount unearned revenue previously recorded ( any), the timing revenue recognition these recorded unearned amounts has been changed correspond with the terms the amended agreements. the extent believe any such amendments cause may cause the compensation received under agreement longer fixed determinable, limit our revenue recognition amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed determinable. future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term the agreement. Our investments equity securities are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 and \x93Other equity investments\x94 our consolidated balance sheets. regularly review all our investments public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines fair value. When determine that the decline fair value investment below our accounting basis other-than-temporary, reduce the carrying value the securities hold and record loss the amount any such decline. recent years, securities companies the Internet and -commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. may conclude future quarters that the fair values our investments have experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments.\x94 The Seasonality Our Business Places Increased Strain Our Operations expect disproportionate amount our net sales realized during the fourth quarter our fiscal year. not stock popular products sufficient amounts fail have sources timely restock popular products, such that fail meet customer demand, could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. overstock products, may required take significant inventory markdowns write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. failure optimize inventory our . fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make long-zone shipments partial shipments from one more locations. Orders from each our internationally focused websites are fulfilled primarily from single fulfillment center, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. may experience decline our shipping margins due complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. the other businesses whose behalf perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product our fulfillment centers excess forecasts, may unable secure sufficient storage space and may unable optimize our fulfillment centers. too many customers access our websites within short period time due increased holiday other demand, may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume goods sell and the attractiveness our products and services. addition, may unable adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services our customers may unable meet the seasonal demand. Finally, , along with our customer service -sourcers, may unable adequately staff customer service centers. generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount time necessary collect proceeds from our customers. result holiday sales, December each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other than result cash flows provided used investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results corresponding increase accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result decline the amount cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities hand. May Experience Significant Fluctuations Our Operating Results and Rate Growth Due our limited operating history, our evolving business model, and the unpredictability our industry, may not able accurately forecast our rate growth. base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans estimates future net sales and rate growth. Our expenses and investments are large extent fixed. may not able adjust our spending quickly enough our net sales fall short our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends the continued growth demand for the products offered our sellers, and our business affected general economic and business conditions throughout the world. softening demand, whether caused changes consumer preferences weakening the . global economies, may result decreased revenue growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth. Such events could create delays , and increase the cost , product shipments, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: \x95 our ability retain and increase sales existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers\x92 demands; \x95 our ability expand our network sellers, and enter into, maintain, renew, and amend favorable terms our commercial agreements and strategic alliances; \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 our ability acquire merchandise, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; \x95 the introduction our competitors websites, products, services, improvements; \x95 changes usage the Internet and online services and consumer acceptance the Internet and -commerce; \x95 timing and costs upgrades and developments our systems and infrastructure; \x95 the effects commercial agreements and strategic alliances and our ability successfully implement the underlying relationships and integrate them into our business; \x95 the effects acquisitions, and other business combinations and our ability successfully integrate them into our business; \x95 technical difficulties, system downtime, interruptions; \x95 variations the mix products and services sell; \x95 variations our level merchandise and vendor returns; \x95 disruptions service shipping carriers; \x95 the extent which offer free shipping promotions; and \x95 increase the prices fuel and gasoline, which are used the transportation packages, well increase the prices other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, which are used our operating facilities. Finally, both seasonal fluctuations Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales almost all our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly the fourth calendar quarter each year. Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results operations and certain our intercompany balances associated with our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant transaction gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. addition, our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % PEACS\x94) are denominated Euros, not . Dollars. remeasure the principal the % PEACS quarterly based fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio and record gains losses \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Furthermore, hold cash equivalents and marketable securities Euros, British Pounds and Yen. Accordingly, the . Dollar strengthens compared these currencies, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may materially less than expected and vice versa. Our Planned Future Growth Will Place Significant Strain our Management, Operational, and Financial Resources have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will endeavor expand further pursue growth our product and service offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue place significant strain our management, operational, and financial resources. also need hire, train, and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not adequate support and effectively manage our future operations, especially employ personnel multiple geographic locations. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. addition, not expect benefit our newer market segments from the first- -market advantage that experienced the online book channel. Our gross profits our newer business activities may lower than our older business activities. addition, may have limited experience new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. the extent pursue commercial agreements and strategic alliances facilitate new product service activities, the agreements and alliances may not successful. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and negatively affect revenue growth. The Loss Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business depend the continued services and performance our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey . Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board. not have \x93key person\x94 life insurance policies. The loss any our executive officers other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack Integration and Redundancy Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access our websites directly affects the volume goods sell and the services offer and thus affects our net sales. experience occasional system interruptions that make our websites unavailable prevent from efficiently fulfilling orders providing services third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness our products and services. are unable continually add additional software and hardware and upgrade effective manner our systems and network infrastructure, could cause system interruption and adversely affect our operating results. Our computer and communications systems and operations could damaged interrupted fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts war terrorism, acts God, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, and similar events disruptions. Any these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss critical data, and could prevent from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, would make our product offerings less attractive our customers and our service offerings less attractive third parties. While have backup systems for certain aspects our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. addition, may have inadequate insurance coverage insurance limits compensate for losses from major interruption. any this were occur, could damage our reputation and expensive remedy. May Not Successful Our Efforts Expand into International Market Segments plan, over time, continue expand our reach international market segments. have relatively little experience purchasing, marketing, and distributing products services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first- -market advantages. costly establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized websites, stores, and other systems. may not succeed these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not profitable sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject number risks inherent selling abroad, including, but not limited , risks with respect : \x95 foreign exchange rate fluctuations; \x95 local economic and political conditions; \x95 restrictive governmental actions (such trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and custom duties and tariffs); \x95 import export licensing requirements; \x95 limitations the repatriation funds; \x95 difficulty obtaining distribution and support; \x95 nationalization; \x95 longer receivable cycles; \x95 consumer protection laws and restrictions pricing discounts; \x95 lower level adoption use the Internet and other technologies vital our business and the lack appropriate infrastructure support widespread Internet usage; \x95 lower level credit card usage and increased payment risk; \x95 difficulty developing and simultaneously managing larger number unique foreign operations result distance, language, and cultural differences; \x95 laws and policies the . and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, and loans; \x95 tax and other laws the . and other jurisdictions; and \x95 geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. the international -commerce channel continues grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have substantial competitive advantage because their greater understanding , and focus , the local customer, well their more established local brand name recognition. addition, governments foreign jurisdictions may regulate -commerce other online services such areas content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, distribution. may not able hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth international market segments. Face Significant Inventory Risk are exposed significant inventory risks result seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes product cycles and changes consumer tastes with respect our products. order successful, must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory ordered and the date sale. addition, when begin selling new product, particularly difficult forecast product demand accurately. failure optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make split shipments from one more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary ensure timely delivery. result our Merchants@ program relationships with Toysrus com, Babiesrus com, Target, and other companies, these parties identify, buy, manage, and bear the financial risk inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. result, any these parties fail forecast product demand optimize inventory, would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could harmed. The acquisition certain types inventory, inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not returnable. carry broad selection and significant inventory levels certain products, such consumer electronics, and may unable sell products sufficient quantities during the relevant selling seasons. Any one the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Harmed not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, could significantly limit our ability meet customer demand. Because difficult predict demand, may not manage our facilities optimal way, which may result excess insufficient inventory, and warehousing, fulfillment, and distribution capacity. failure optimize inventory our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins requiring make long-zone shipments partial shipments from one more locations. Orders from each our internationally focused websites are fulfilled primarily from single fulfillment center, and have only limited ability reroute orders third parties for drop-shipping. and our -sourcers may unable adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. Finally, our ability receive inbound inventory efficiently ship completed orders customers may negatively affected number factors, including dependence limited number shipping companies, inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts war terrorism, acts God. Third parties either drop-ship otherwise fulfill increasing portion our customers\x92 orders, and are increasingly reliant the reliability, quality, and future procurement their services. Under some our commercial agreements, maintain the inventory other companies our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the complexity tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure properly handle such inventory the inability failure these other companies accurately forecast product demand would result unexpected costs and other harm our business and reputation. May Not Able Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights May Accused Infringing Intellectual Property Rights Third Parties regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property critical our success, and rely trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not available every country which our products and services are made available online. also may not able acquire maintain appropriate domain names all countries which business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. may unable prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar , infringe upon, diminish the value our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use our proprietary rights inherently difficult, and may not able determine the existence extent any such unauthorized use. The protection our intellectual property may require the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, cannot certain that the steps take protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights that others will not independently develop otherwise acquire equivalent superior technology other intellectual property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value our proprietary rights reputation. addition, the steps take protect our proprietary rights may not adequate and third parties may infringe misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents, and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that infringed their proprietary rights. have been subject , and expect continue subject , claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights third parties. Such claims, whether not meritorious, may result the expenditure significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the imposition damages that must pay. may need obtain licenses from third parties who allege that have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not available terms acceptable all. addition, may not able obtain utilize terms that are favorable , all, licenses other rights with respect intellectual property not own providing -commerce services other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. Have Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Highly Volatile have relatively short operating history and, -commerce company, have rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The trading price our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices our common stock may fluctuate response number events and factors, such : \x95 general economic conditions; \x95 changes interest rates; \x95 conditions trends the Internet and the -commerce industry; \x95 fluctuations the stock market general and market prices for Internet-related companies particular; \x95 quarterly variations operating results; \x95 new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments our competitors , business combinations and investments our competitors ; \x95 changes financial estimates securities analysts and recommendations securities analysts; \x95 changes Internet regulation; \x95 changes our capital structure, including issuance additional debt equity the public; \x95 additions departures key personnel; \x95 corporate restructurings, including layoffs closures facilities; \x95 changes the valuation methodology , performance , other -commerce companies; and \x95 certain analyst reports, news, and speculation. Any these events may cause our stock price rise fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Future volatility our stock price could force increase our cash compensation employees grant larger stock awards than have historically, which could hurt our operating results reduce the percentage ownership our existing stockholders, both. the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options. This option exchange offer resulted variable accounting treatment for certain our stock options. Additionally, all options granted after January , are subject variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment will result unpredictable stock-based compensation expense dependent fluctuations quoted prices for our common stock. late , implemented restricted stock unit plan, which will our primary vehicle for stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and restricted stock units, not subject variable accounting, are measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price the common stock, which will recognized compensation expense over the corresponding service term. Government Regulation the Internet and -commerce Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business are subject general business regulations and laws, well regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and -commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth the Internet other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality products and services. not clear how existing laws governing issues such property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply the Internet and -commerce. Unfavorable resolution these issues may harm our business. addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate \x93auctions\x94 and \x93auctioneers\x94 and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate other consumer- -consumer online markets, including certain aspects Amazon Marketplace. This could, turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost doing business. May Subject Liability for Past Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease accordance with current industry practice, not collect sales taxes other taxes with respect shipments most our goods into states other than Washington, North Dakota, and April , Kansas. Under some our commercial agreements, the other company the seller record the applicable merchandise and are obligated collect sales tax most states accordance with that company\x92 instructions. may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. collect Value Added Tax, VAT, for products that are ordered www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon and delivered European Union, , member countries. July , , began collecting VAT with respect certain our \x93electronically supplied services,\x94 including digital downloads and marketplace services, provided certain residents. also collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Japan. addition, Canadian consumption taxes are collected sales products that are ordered www amazon and delivered Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion those networks, along with other aspects our evolving business, may result additional sales and other tax obligations. One more states foreign countries may seek impose sales other tax collection obligations out- -jurisdiction companies that engage -commerce. successful assertion one more states foreign countries that should collect sales other taxes the sale merchandise services could result substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions the . Supreme Court restrict the imposition obligations collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect sales made over the Internet. However, number states, well the . Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit supersede the Supreme Court\x92 position regarding sales and use taxes Internet sales. any these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court\x92 constitutional concerns and resulted reversal its current position, could required collect sales and use taxes states other than Washington, North Dakota, and Kansas. The imposition state and local governments various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for and could decrease our future sales. Source Significant Portion Our Inventory from Few Vendors Although continue increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, source significant amount inventory from relatively few vendors. However, vendor accounts for % more our inventory purchases. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. our current vendors were stop selling merchandise acceptable terms, may not able acquire merchandise from other suppliers timely and efficient manner and acceptable terms. May Subject Product Liability Claims People Property Are Harmed the Products Sell Some the products sell may expose product liability claims relating personal injury, death, property damage caused such products, and may require take actions such product recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also sell products using our -commerce platform that may increase our exposure product liability claims, such these sellers not have sufficient resources protect themselves from such claims. Although maintain liability insurance, cannot certain that our coverage will adequate for liabilities actually incurred that insurance will continue available economically reasonable terms, all. addition, some our vendor agreements with our suppliers and third party sellers not indemnify from product liability. Could Liable for Breaches Security Our Website and Fraudulent Activities Users Our Payments Program fundamental requirement for -commerce the secure transmission confidential information over public networks. Although have developed systems and processes that are designed protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure mitigate such fraud breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating the liability providers online payment services currently unsettled. addition, are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the provision online payment services and could require changes the way this business conducted. guarantee payments made through our payments program available sellers Marketplace and certain other programs certain limits for buyers, and may unable prevent users from fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not shipped buyer. our payments program grows, our liability risk will increase. Any costs incur result liability because our payments program\x92 guarantee otherwise could harm our business. addition, the functionality our payments program depends certain third-party vendors delivering services. these vendors are unable unwilling provide services, our payments program and our businesses that use may not viable. May Not Able Adapt Quickly Enough Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology the -commerce industry changes rapidly. may not able adapt quickly enough changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence new industry standards and practices could render our existing websites and proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet Medium for Commerce Uncertain Consumer use the Internet medium for commerce recent phenomenon and subject high level uncertainty. While the number Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough meet the increased levels demand. use the Internet medium for commerce does not continue grow grows slower rate than anticipate, our sales would lower than expected and our business would harmed. Could Liable for Unlawful Fraudulent Activities Users Our Merchants@, Marketplace, Merchant com, and Certain Other Programs may unable prevent users our Merchants@, Marketplace, Merchant com, and certain other programs from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods unlawful manner. may face civil criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities our users under . laws and the laws and regulations other countries. addition, are unsuccessful preventing our users from providing content that either illegal that violates the proprietary rights others, may result liability . Any costs incur result liability relating the sale unlawful goods, the unlawful sale goods, the fraudulent receipt goods, the fraudulent collection payments could harm our business. running our Merchants@, Marketplace, Merchant com, and other programs, rely sellers make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and buyers pay the agreed purchase price. the extent expand our guarantee program, this may create additional liability for . Executive Officers and Directors The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors February , : Executive Officers Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Richard . Dalzell Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer Jason Kilar Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Diego Piacentini Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Jeffrey . Wilke Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service . Michelle Wilson Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Jeffrey . Bezos. . Bezos has been Chairman the Board Amazon com since founding and Chief Executive Officer since May . . Bezos served President from founding until June and again from October the present. Richard . Dalzell. . Dalzell has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software, and Chief Information Officer since November . From October until November , . Dalzell was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer and prior that, from joining Amazon com August until October , was Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Jason Kilar. . Kilar has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Application Software, since May . From February May , served Vice President, Worldwide Application Software. From October until February , served Vice President, Marketplace, and from February until October , served Vice President, Books, Music, and Video & DVD. . Kilar joined Amazon com May, Product Manager. Mark . Peek. . Peek has served Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since July . From November July , served Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April November , served Vice President, Finance, and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior joining Amazon com, . Peek was audit partner with Deloitte & Touche. Diego Piacentini. . Piacentini has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since November . From joining Amazon com February until November , . Piacentini was Senior Vice President and General Manager, International. Prior joining Amazon com, . Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager, Europe, Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple Computer\x92 operations Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Thomas . Szkutak. . Szkutak has served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November . Previously, . Szkutak held variety positions General Electric ., including Chief Financial Officer Lighting from September September , Finance Director Plastics Europe from March September , and Executive Vice President\x97Finance Asset Management (formerly known Investments) from May March . Jeffrey . Wilke. . Wilke has served Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service, since January . From October until January , . Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior that had been Vice President and General Manager, Operations, since joining Amazon com September . Previously, . Wilke held variety positions AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit from March September and General Manager the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from August February . . Michelle Wilson. . Wilson has served Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since June . She served Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel, and Secretary from March until June and Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from July until March . . Wilson joined Amazon com March Associate General Counsel, Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance. Prior joining Amazon com, she was partner the law firm Perkins Coie LLP. Board Directors Name Age Position Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman the Board Tom . Alberg Managing Director Madrona Venture Group . John Doerr General Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Thomas . Ryder Chairman and CEO Reader\x92 Digest Association, Inc. Patricia . Stonesifer President and -Chair the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation William . Gordon Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer Electronic Arts, Inc. Item . Properties not own any real estate. Our principal office facilities the . are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire various times through April . Our corporate office facilities, excluding customer service office space, the . comprise total , square feet. Additionally, have , square feet office space that subleased vacant under lease agreements that expire various times through April . Our . warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed six fulfillment centers located New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Lexington and Campbellsville, Kentucky; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These fulfillment centers comprise total approximately million square feet. Our fulfillment center leases expire from through . also lease six facilities located near our fulfillment centers, comprising approximately million square feet, which use for off-site storage and shipping. These offsite storage and shipping facilities are under relatively short-term lease agreements that expire various times through July and one longer-term lease through June ; following expiration, intend renew certain these leases consolidate into new offsite facilities, both. Our . customer service operations occupy approximately , square feet office space and are located Tacoma, Washington; Huntington, West Virginia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. The lease terms these facilities expire from . Our data-center facilities have , combined square feet, including approximately , square feet vacant space one facility. These facilities are under leases that expire and . lease additional properties outside the ., including approximately , square feet corporate office space Germany, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom, which excludes approximately , square feet vacant office space Germany. also lease approximately million combined square feet available fulfillment center space Germany, France, and the United Kingdom; and approximately , combined square feet customer service space Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom. The fulfillment centers Germany, the United Kingdom, and France are located Bad Hersfeld, Marston Gate, and Orleans, and the lease terms expire December , October , and March . believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present needs, and periodically evaluate whether additional facilities are necessary. Item . Legal Proceedings See, Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplemental Data\x97Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x97Legal Proceedings.\x94 Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our shareholders during the fourth quarter . PART Item . Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Shareholder Matters Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low intraday sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders February , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. Item . Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. and for the Years Ended December , ( thousands, except per share data) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net sales , , , , , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) , , , , , Balance Sheet and Other Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , $ , $ , $ , Marketable securities , , , , , Total assets , , , , , , , , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , , , , , , , Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) ( , , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) ( , ) , ( ) For further discussion earnings (loss) per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 and \x93\x97Note \x97Earnings (Loss) Per Share.\x94 Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section should read conjunction with \x93Forward-Looking Statements\x94 below, well Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 and Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\x94 Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers our global websites . The products offered our websites include products have purchased from distributors and manufacturers and products sold third parties our websites. Generally, recognize revenue the seller record from items offer from our inventory and recognize our net share revenue items offered third parties. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . also seek minimize shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings and aligning employee interests with shareholders. Free cash flow driven primarily increasing consolidated segment operating profit and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures. Increases consolidated segment operating profit result from increases sales through our websites and focus keeping costs low. increase sales, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, increasing selection, expanding product information, improving ease use, and earning customer trust. Our price reductions take several forms: reduce the sales prices products sell, recruit third-party sellers compete with product detail pages, and reduce eliminate the cost shipping the consumer. moved restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation late . Restricted stock units result charges our income statement; however, believe they better align the interests our shareholders and employees. Total shares outstanding plus employee stock awards are essentially unchanged the end compared . leverage our fixed customer experience costs and work reduce our variable cost per unit. Our customer experience costs, specifically the costs necessary build, enhance, and add features our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers, are largely fixed costs. The customer experience costs that remain variable percentage sales include product costs, credit-card processing fees, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and certain aspects our marketing costs. focus maintaining lean culture reducing defects our processes, and obtaining volume discounts from suppliers decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers. Because are able turn our inventory quickly, have negative operating cycle that source cash flow . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , and for , , and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our future investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and December , , , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since they are affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix suppliers, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect negotiating better pricing from our suppliers exchange for shorter payment terms. Our spending technology and content will increase add computer scientists and software engineers continue improve our process efficiency and enhance the customer experience our websites . believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the improved consumer experience the Internet outside the workplace through lower cost broad-band service the home, and the advances wireless connectivity will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase the ubiquity computers people\x92 lives . Our challenge will continue build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage continued advances technology. Free cash flow defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our statements cash flows. The operating cycle number days sales inventory plus number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Inventory turnover the quotient cost sales average inventory. Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable cost sales, multiplied the number days the period. Finally, want emphasize that not believe that our reported net income for the year ended December , should viewed material positive event should considered predictive future results. discuss Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Foreign Currencies,\x94 had not been for our decision settle intercompany balances denominated foreign currencies, would have reported small net loss for . Also, our financial reporting currency the . Dollar, our total revenue, profit, and free cash flow has significantly benefited each the past two years from weakness the . Dollar comparison the currencies our faster-growing international websites. While believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our fast growing international businesses benefits our shareholders, important evaluate our growth rates after the effect currency changes. For example, although grew % during , holding currency exchange constant with the prior year our growth would have been %. the future, this trend may reverse, and our consolidated . Dollar revenue growth rates would less than our local-currency growth rates. For description , and additional information about, each line item summarized below, refer Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, the rate growth the economy general and the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, world events, the amount that invest new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, competition, risks inventory management, the degree which enter into commercial agreements and strategic transactions and maintain and develop commercial relationships, foreign exchange risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion, and risks fulfillment, throughput, and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred the carrier services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: ( ) the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; ( ) there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and ( ) delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. When are the primary obligor transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. also record allowance, using historical experience, for losses incur our payment guarantee from disputes customers against third-party sellers. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, record valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. Currency Effect Intercompany Balances provision Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, where settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. Currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were historically recorded equity translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurement intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. The effect for the fourth quarter and the year ended December , was increase net income $ million. The effect this treatment was very significant our net income for the year and for the quarter. Had not changed our intent the settlement these intercompany balances, would have had net loss for and our net income for the fourth quarter would have been reduced almost %. See Item Part \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Remeasurement % PEACS and Other\x94 for further discussion. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. Additionally, may determine that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future expansion needs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. elect utilize this office space, accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities , will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments \x93General and administrative\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities which were $ billion, $ billion, and $ million December , , and . Additionally, received cash from exercises employee stock awards $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . expect that stock award exercises will decline source cash result our decision use restricted stock unit awards our primary form stock-based compensation. December , and , held $ million and $ million foreign currencies, primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. During , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were utilized redeem our % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93 % Senior Discount Notes\x94) and portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94). Total redemption payments, including redemption premiums, totaled $ million. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers and third-party sellers, offset cash payments make suppliers products and services, employee compensation, and interest payments our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers and third-party sellers generally corresponds our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash paid inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost sales, adjusted for increases decreases inventory and payable levels. generally experience net cash outflow during the first quarter each year, pay suppliers for inventory that was purchased and sold the fourth quarter. the end , held $ million products inventories, increase $ million comparison the prior year. The increase inventories corresponds with our efforts add product categories, increase selection and availability both existing and new product categories, take advantage additional discounts offered suppliers, and the effect foreign exchange rates. Additionally, our accounts payable December , increased $ million over the prior year end corresponding with increased sales volume. Since our % PEACS, which are due , are denominated Euros, our . Dollar equivalent interest payments fluctuate with the Euro . Dollar exchange rate. , the . Dollar weakened considerably relative the Euro resulting higher . Dollar equivalent interest payments. Additionally, began accruing interest our % Senior Discount Notes and paid $ million interest when repaid the full principal amount. also made interest payments $ million associated with the $ million partial redemption our % Convertible Subordinated Notes; this payment was otherwise scheduled paid . currently not hedge our exposure foreign currency effects our interest payments relating the % PEACS, and, result, any fluctuations the exchange rate will have effect our interest expense. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with our buying and selling marketable securities and purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software costs. Cash provided investing activities was $ million during , while cash used investing activities was $ million and $ million during and . Our capital expenditures were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient keep our facilities and equipment suitable operating condition. Cash provided (used ) financing activities consists primarily cash proceeds from exercises stock options, repayment long-term debt, and repayment capital lease obligations. Cash used financing activities was $ million during resulting primarily from repayments long-term debt obligations. Cash provided financing activities was $ million during and . expect cash proceeds from exercises employee stock options decline over time plan continue issuing restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee stock-based awards. January , our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. addition this debt repurchase program, February , , will redeem $ million our % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments December , ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Other commitments: Debt principal and other ( )( ) , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest ( )( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Purchase obligations ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our principal debt obligation under this instrument since issuance has increased $ million through December , . cannot predict the performance the . Dollar relative the Euro. ( ) See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our equipment-related operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional assets and obligations our balance sheet December , . ( ) Consists legally-binding commitments purchase inventory. Legally-binding commitments associated with non-inventory purchases are not significant. believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position (and our Board Directors has authorized the debt repurchase program discussed above). The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. not currently have line- -credit, and there can assurance that lines- -credit other financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations Segment Operating Income (Loss) Years Ended December , (amounts thousands) Segment Operating Income: North America $ , $ , $ , International , ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ ( , ) Year-over-year improvement: North America % % International , Consolidated Segment Operating Margin: North America % % % International ( ) Consolidated ( ) The key drivers the year-over-year improvement segment operating income are revenue growth and efficiencies our fulfillment process. Revenue growth was driven, part, lowering prices, including increased adoption our customers our free shipping offers. Operating expenses our North America and International segments increased $ million and $ million, % and % comparison the prior year. The increases segment operating expenses were primarily related variable costs, including fulfillment-related costs for picking, packaging, and shipping our products customers, and credit card fees, offset reductions most other expense categories. Segment operating expenses represented % and % net sales for North America and International segments, compared with % and % the prior year. The year-over-year declines segment operating expenses percentage net sales result from leveraging the fixed cost portion our operations over increased volume. See \x93Net Sales and Gross Profit\x94 below for additional information about increases our sales volume. , improvements our income (loss) from operations over the prior year were also significantly affected the decline amortization charges, primarily relating the required adoption SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , and lower restructuring-related charges. Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Net Sales North America Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other , , , Total North America , , , , , , International Media , , , , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other , , Total International , , , , , Consolidated Media , , , , , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , , Other , , , Total consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Net Sales Growth Rate North America Media % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media Electronics and other general merchandise Other ( ) Total International Consolidated Media Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total Consolidated Consolidated Revenue Mix Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total Consolidated % % % Revenue growth due increased demand, which was driven increased selection, lower prices, including from our free shipping offers, and improved features and services available our websites, including our Amazon Marketplace and Merchant@ programs. Revenues improved $ million and $ million and comparison the preceding years due changes foreign exchange rates the . Dollar weakened. The future growth our International segment, measured . Dollars, may fluctuate significantly with changes foreign exchange rates. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results\x97 Have Foreign Exchange Risk.\x94 also anticipate that, the revenue base our International segment increases, the percentage growth rates local currency will likely decline over time. Sales products third-party sellers our websites continue increase. Since revenues from these sales are recorded net amount, they result lower revenues but higher gross margins per unit, there are associated costs classified within cost sales, unless perform fulfillment services. the extent product sales third-party sellers continue increase, anticipate improvement gross margin, offset the extent offer additional broader price reductions, free shipping offers, and other promotions. Gross profit follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gross Profit North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , $ , Gross Profit Growth Rate North America % % International Consolidated Gross Margin North America % % % International Consolidated The increases gross profit comparison with the prior years corresponds with increased revenue, offset our year-round free shipping offers and lower prices for customers. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including our mix sales during the year, sales volumes third-party sellers, competitive pricing decisions, changes vendor pricing, and general efforts reduce prices for our customers over time, well the extent which our customers accept our free shipping offers. These free shipping offers reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and reduce our gross margins retail sales. particular, commenced offering free super saver delivery the . , and this decision decreased the gross margins for our International segment. view our shipping offers effective marketing tool and intend continue offering them. Gross profit benefited $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates the . Dollar weakened. Supplemental information about shipping results follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Supplemental Information Shipping Activity Shipping revenue $ , $ , $ , Net shipping cost ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success. One way offer lower prices through free-shipping alternatives that result net cost delivering products. seek offset these costs over time through achieving higher sales volumes and better operating efficiencies and negotiating better terms with our suppliers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing %, %, and % net sales. The increase fulfillment costs comparison with the prior year primarily relates variable costs corresponding with sales volume and our mix product sales. The mix product sales affects fulfillment costs per shipment based variations shape and weight our products. The improvement fulfillment costs percentage net sales results from improvements productivity and accuracy, the increase units fulfilled, which leverages the fixed-cost portion our fulfillment network, efficiencies gained through utilization fulfillment services provided third parties, decline customer service contacts per order resulting from improvements our operations, and enhancements our customer self-service features available our websites. These improvements were offset, part, credit card fees associated with third-party seller transactions, which represent significant percentage relative commission amounts earned, and result negatively affect fulfillment percentage net sales. Marketing Marketing expenses, net -operative marketing reimbursements, were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing %, %, and % net sales. Although not expect them , -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. direct customers our websites primarily through number online marketing channels, including our Syndicated Stores and Associates programs, which enable associated websites make our products available their audiences with fulfillment performed . Under these arrangements, pay sales commission product sales, which classified \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Declines expense for marketing-related activities reflect management efforts cut ineffective marketing programs, well reduced rates charged for some online marketing activities. These decreases are partially offset increased investment marketing channels considered most effective driving incremental net sales, such targeted online advertising through various Web portals and our Associates program. expect absolute dollars spent marketing increase . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing %, %, and % net sales. The decline absolute dollars spent for primarily reflects improved expense management and general price reductions most expense categories, offset increases employee-related costs. The decline absolute dollars spent for primarily reflects our migration technology platform that utilizes less-costly technology infrastructure. expect absolute dollars spent technology and content increase during continue hire more computer scientists and software engineers, however percentage net sales, expect these costs remain flat possibly decline. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing % net sales for and , and % net sales for . generally expect administrative costs increase over time commensurate with the increasing size and complexity our business. , expect ongoing general and administrative costs increase absolute terms, however percentage net sales, expect these costs remain flat possibly decline. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . late , began issuing restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation. Previously, primarily issued -the-money stock options. certain our foreign jurisdictions, continue grant stock options. December , , had million stock awards outstanding, including million stock options, which had weighted average exercise price $ ; million restricted stock units; and million shares restricted stock. Common shares outstanding, which includes restricted stock, plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units, totaled million December , , flat with the prior year. For additional information about our stock-based compensation and awards, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies,\x94 and \x93\x97Note \x97Stockholders\x92 Deficit.\x94 Amortization Goodwill and Other Intangibles Amortization goodwill and other intangibles was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Goodwill longer amortized, accordance with GAAP, and based the current balance intangibles, absent any additional investment, amortization intangibles will not significant going forward. Restructuring-Related and Other Cash payments resulting from our January operational restructuring were $ million and $ million for and . Based currently available information, estimate the remaining restructuring-related cash outflows will follows ( thousands): Leases Other Total Years Ending December , $ , $ $ , , , , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Thereafter , \x97 , Total estimated cash outflows ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Cash flows are presented net estimated $ million sublease rentals. December , have signed sublease agreements totaling $ million. For additional information about our January operational restructuring, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Restructuring-Related and Other.\x94 Net Interest Expense generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- -intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds and the prevailing rates are earning them. The primary components our interest expense relate our debt instruments. During , redeemed our % Senior Discount Notes and redeemed portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes. December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 and \x93\x97Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was gain $ million and $ million for and , and loss $ million . These amounts consist gains sales marketable securities; state, foreign, and other taxes; and miscellaneous non-operating gains and losses. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net\x94 for additional information. Remeasurement % PEACS and Other Remeasurement % PEACS and other consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gain (loss) % PEACS ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Loss redemption long-term debt ( ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Foreign currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , \x97 \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) ( , ) , ( , ) Total remeasurement % PEACS and other $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 for additional information repayments long-term debt . ( ) Represents the gain associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates (See Item Part \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Foreign Currencies\x94). future periods, remeasurement intercompany balances that remain outstanding will result gains losses being recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Includes $ million loss relating the termination our Euro Currency Swap . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 for additional information the termination our Euro Currency Swap. result this termination, any fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange will have greater effect our interest expense. Income Taxes Subject certain limitations, have approximately $ billion net operating loss carryforwards that begin expire various times starting . Approximately $ billion our net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Income Taxes\x94 for additional information. Net Income (Loss) Although reported net income for the year ended , believe that this net income result should not viewed material positive event and not necessarily predictive future reported results for variety reasons. For example, had not changed our intent the settlement the intercompany balances during the fourth quarter, would have had small net loss for the year and our net income for the fourth quarter would have been reduced almost %. Additionally, are unable forecast the effect our future reported results certain items, including the stock-based compensation associated with variable accounting treatment and the gain loss associated with the remeasurement our % PEACS and intercompany balances that results from fluctuations foreign exchange rates. These items represented significant quarterly charges and gains during and may result significant charges gains future periods. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue was $ million and $ million December , and . Unearned revenue represents payments received advance our service obligations. continue structure our agreements align the timing our cash receipts with the service provided, expect that, over time, balances unearned revenue may continue decline. believe this trend unearned revenue not significant relative the trend our cash flows operating results. See \x93Net Sales and Gross Profit\x94 above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , \x93Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures,\x94 and other provisions the Securities Exchange Act (\x93 Act\x94) define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. believe that certain our financial measures which meet the definition non-GAAP financial measure are important supplemental information investors. provide: \x93consolidated segment operating income (loss),\x94 \x93pro forma net income (loss),\x94 \x93pro forma net earnings (loss) per share,\x94 and \x93free cash flow.\x94 use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes, when publicly providing guidance possible future results, and means evaluate period- -period comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are used addition and conjunction with results presented accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures should not relied upon the exclusion GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect additional way viewing aspects our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide more complete understanding factors and trends affecting our business. Management strongly encourages investors review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports their entirety and not rely any single financial measure. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, may not possible compare these financial measures with other companies\x92 non-GAAP financial measures having the same similar names. For example, certain companies disclose financial measure earnings before certain charges such interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, commonly referred EBITDA. considered the use EBITDA supplemental performance measure GAAP, but believe consolidated segment operating income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) are superior for our Company certain periodic costs associated with our invested capital, such fixed asset depreciation expense and amortization software development costs, and certain costs associated with our capital structure, such interest expense, are relevant and important factors affecting our management decisions. For information about our financial results reported accordance with GAAP, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\x94 For quantitative reconciliation our non-GAAP financial measures the most comparable GAAP financial measures, see \x93Reconciliation Tables\x94 below. Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) measure operating results our segments using internal performance measure direct segment operating expenses that excludes: \x95 Stock-based compensation; \x95 Amortization other intangibles; and \x95 Restructuring-related and other. These operating expense line items are not allocated segment results, and all other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated segment results. The sum our individual segment results consolidated segment operating income (loss), which reconcile GAAP operating income (loss). Pursuant SEC staff interpretations Regulation , when presented our financial statement footnotes, consolidated segment operating income GAAP financial measure; however, since also present this financial measure outside the context our financial statement footnotes, have included this financial measure our discussion non-GAAP financial measures. use consolidated segment operating income (loss), and ratios based , manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our management evaluates consolidated segment income (loss) because excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control that believe are not characteristic our underlying business operations for the period which they are recorded, both. Items Excluded From Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) Stock-Based Compensation exclude stock-based compensation for the following reasons: \x95 Stock-based compensation expense excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance, although consider the dilutive impact our investors when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly; \x95 Stock-based compensation charges gains are non-cash; and \x95 The measurement stock-based compensation determined under variety methods depending the underlying award. These methods include: ( ) fixed accounting stock options granted market prices, resulting compensation expense, ( ) variable accounting certain stock options and restricted stock units, resulting unpredictable charges gains beyond our control, and ( ) fixed accounting for certain restricted stock units, resulting the estimated fair value the award recognized over the service period. record the employer portion payroll tax expense, cash expense, resulting from exercises stock-based awards \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 our consolidated statements operations and not include such expenses \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Amortization Other Intangibles exclude \x93Amortization other intangibles\x94 for the following reasons: \x95 Amortization other intangibles excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance; \x95 Amortization other intangibles non-cash charge current operations; and \x95 Amortization other intangibles has diminished, currently immaterial, and scheduled fully amortize the end . Restructuring-Related and Other exclude restructuring-related and other expenses, which are cash and non-cash amounts, for the following reasons: \x95 have implemented only one restructuring event our history, which announced January , and accordingly believe internally that this line item not important understanding our quarterly trends other line items; \x95 Since not regularly have restructuring-related charges, the exclusion such charges from prior periods provides better comparability our results operations viewed management; and \x95 Our restructuring-related and other charges have diminished, and except for periodic adjustments our estimates that may required from time time, not currently expect record additional restructuring-related charges the foreseeable future. Impairment Goodwill , the future, incur impairment losses our goodwill, such charges would excluded from consolidated segment operating income (loss) since they would non-cash, and not the immediate control management. have elected perform our annual analysis during the fourth calendar quarter each year. indicators impairment were identified during the year ended December , . Limitations Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) Consolidated segment operating income (loss) has certain limitations. First, because excludes \x93Stock-based compensation,\x94 the financial measure does not include all expenses primarily related our workforce. compensate for this limitation providing supplemental information about stock-based compensation the face our consolidated statements operations and the footnotes our financial statements. also provide supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards, including their dilutive effect shareholders, the footnotes our financial statements. See Item Part \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 for presentation our stock-based compensation expense calculated consistent basis for all awards using the fair value method prescribed under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , well total outstanding stock-based awards and related activity. Second, consolidated segment operating income (loss) excludes \x93Restructuring-related and other.\x94 For companies that periodically undergo restructuring events, excluding such costs from performance measures could provide incomplete summary ongoing costs that would affect future cash flows. However, compensate for this limitation disclosing cash flow measures, including operating cash flow, that incorporate all ongoing cash obligations associated with our January restructuring event and providing disclosure future estimated cash flows and remaining commitments associated with this event. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Restructuring-Related and Other.\x94 There can assurance that will not undertake another restructuring event the future that would affect future cash flows. have restructuring event the future, will -evaluate our decision exclude such charges from our consolidated segment operating income (loss) based those future facts and circumstances that time. Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) Pro forma net income (loss), including the related pro forma net earnings (loss) per share, which reconcile net income (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share, excludes, addition the line items described above excluded from consolidated segment operating income (loss), the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 Remeasurement % PEACS and other; \x95 Equity losses equity-method investees, net; and \x95 Cumulative effect change accounting principle. use pro forma net income (loss), and ratios based , manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our decision use this financial measure due the fact that pro forma net income (loss) excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control are not characteristic our underlying business operations for the period which they are recorded, both. Items Excluded From Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) See \x93Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x97Items Excluded from Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x94 for explanation \x93Stock-based compensation,\x94 \x93Amortization other intangibles,\x94 \x93Restructuring-related and other,\x94 and \x93Impairment goodwill.\x94 Remeasurement % PEACS and Other The majority \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 consists gains charges due our quarterly remeasurement the principal our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars. exclude the effect these periodic remeasurements from our pro forma net income (loss) because the ultimate cash effect resulting from changes exchange rates inherently uncertain. These gains charges would only affect near-term cash flows redeem , certain cases, restructure, our % PEACS the next several years, rather than over longer term maturity . Because these charges and gains vary based exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro, these amounts are beyond our immediate control and are difficult predict for future periods. Additionally, exclude gains charges associated with remeasurements foreign-currency denominated intercompany balances. exclude these amounts because they are beyond our immediate control and are difficult predict for future periods. This line item also includes $ million losses associated with the redemption our % Senior Discount Notes and portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes and $ million losses associated with the termination our Euro Currency Swap. Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees, Net exclude equity losses equity-method investees, net, because generates potential non-cash gains losses, which are based the financial results other companies that not manage control and are difficult predict. addition, believe these non-cash gains and losses are not indicative our financial operating performance. Finally, recent quarters, these amounts represented insignificant charges and, absent future investments, expect this trend continue. Cumulative Effect Change Accounting Principle exclude cumulative effect change accounting principle because generates non-cash charges, which believe are not indicative our financial operating performance. Limitations Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) Pro forma net income (loss) has the same limitations consolidated segment operating income. See \x93Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x97Limitations Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x94 above. addition, when the % PEACS are retired, whether early redemption restructuring, maturity , the foreign currency effect changes the exchange ratio between the . Dollar and the Euro will result cash effect. compensate for this limitation disclosing the effect currency movements our % PEACS our consolidated statements operations and presenting the fair value our % PEACS the notes our financial statements. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, which reconcile \x93Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,\x94 cash flow from operations reduced \x93Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.\x94 use free cash flow, and ratios based , conduct and evaluate our business because, although similar cash flow from operations, believe more conservative measure cash flows since purchases fixed assets are necessary component ongoing operations. limited circumstances where proceeds from sales fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since not anticipate being net seller fixed assets, expect free cash flow less than operating cash flows. Limitations Free Cash Flow Free cash flow has limitations due the fact that does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made capital lease obligations. Therefore, believe important view free cash flow complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. Full year and corresponding quarterly consolidated segment operating income, and certain cash flow information for , and , were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Pro forma net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Consolidated segment operating income percentage net sales % % % % % Pro forma basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Pro forma diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Weighted average shares used computation pro forma basic earnings per share , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation pro forma diluted earnings per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities , , ( , ) , ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) , Year Ended December , Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Pro forma net income (loss) $ , $ , $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Consolidated segment operating income percentage net sales % % % % % Pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average used computation pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided financing activities , , , , , Year Ended December , Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Consolidated segment operating income (loss) percentage net sales ( )% % ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) , , Net cash provided (used ) financing activities , ( , ) , , , The following reconciliation our non-GAAP measures the most comparable GAAP measures for , , and . Quarterly reconciliations are consistent with full-year presentation. Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma ( thousands) ( thousands) ( thousands) Net sales $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , Cost sales , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , Gross profit , , \x97 , , , \x97 , , \x97 , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Marketing , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Technology and content , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , General and administrative , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Stock-based compensation , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Restructuring-related and other ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Total operating expenses , ( , ) , , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , Income (loss) from operations , , , ( ) , , , ( ) ( , ) , ( , )( ) Interest income , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Interest expense ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other income (expense), net , \x97 , , \x97 , ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Remeasurement % PEACS and other ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Income (loss) before equity losses equity-method investees , , , ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, Net ( ) \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Income (loss) before change accounting principle , , , ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Net income (loss) $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma ( thousands) ( thousands) ( thousands) Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and Website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ , $ , ( ) accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. ( ) Consolidated segment operating income. Guidance First quarter net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %. For the full year , net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Assuming among other things, and solely for purposes this estimate, that not record any revisions our restructuring-related estimates and that the closing price our common stock March , and December , identical the closing price $ December , , operating income for the first quarter expected between $ million and $ million, and, for the full year , between $ million and $ million. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93 Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 addition, our GAAP operating projections are based assumption about our future stock price performance, which required estimate stock-based compensation and difficult accurately predict. First quarter consolidated segment operating income expected between $ million and $ million. For the full year , consolidated segment operating income expected between $ million and $ million. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Item . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts were follows ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , $ , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts are follows ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , December , , have long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % PEACS and % Convertible Subordinated Notes, which are due and . Our payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised periodic interest payments and principal payments maturity. The market value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and , and the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ billion (principal balance $ billion) and $ million (principal balance $ billion) December , and . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment (consisting www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, well those relating www amazon , are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites, and include Euros, British Pounds, Yen, and Canadian Dollars. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites the same the corresponding local currency. The results operations and certain our intercompany balances associated with our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant transaction gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues improved $ million and our operating results improved $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (\x93foreign funds\x94). Based the balance foreign funds December , $ million, assumed %, %, and % negative currency movement would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ million. All investments are classified \x93available for sale,\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities. have foreign exchange risk related our % PEACS, which have outstanding principal balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Based the outstanding % PEACS\x92 principal balance, assumed %, %, and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result losses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other.\x94 are not hedged interest payments under our % PEACS. Assuming the . Dollar weakens against the Euro %, %, and % , would incur $ million, $ million, and $ million additional interest expense due solely fluctuations foreign exchange. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments.\x94 regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During , recorded impairment losses totaling $ million, compared $ million during the year ended December , , write-down several our equity securities fair value. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, %, and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million and $ million. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 deficit and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the full provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Business Combinations, and . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective January , . The Company also adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, effective January , . addition, discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out method accounting. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , , except for the last two paragraphs Note and Note , which the date January , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( thousands) Years Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets, including website development costs, and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Equity losses equity-method investees, net , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Non-cash restructuring-related and other \x97 , , Gain sale marketable securities, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Remeasurement % PEACS and other (See Note ) , , , Non-cash interest expense and other , , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) , Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( , ) , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( , ) , Accounts payable , , ( , ) Accrued expenses and other current liabilities ( , ) , , Additions unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest payable , , ( ) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , , ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale subsidiary and other , \x97 \x97 Investments equity-method investees and other investments \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities , ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercise stock options and other , , , Proceeds from issuance common stock, net issuance costs \x97 \x97 , Proceeds from long-term debt and other \x97 \x97 , Repayment long-term debt, capital lease obligations, and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities ( , ) , , Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents , , ( , ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , , ( , ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements $ , $ , $ , Stock issued connection with minority investment \x97 \x97 , Cash paid for interest , , , Cash paid for income taxes , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( thousands, except per share data) Years Ended December , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Stock-based compensation ( ) , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Restructuring-related and other , , Total operating expenses , , , , Income (loss) from operations , , ( , ) Interest income , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net , , ( , ) Remeasurement % PEACS and other (See Note ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Income (loss) before equity losses equity-method investees , ( , ) ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Components stock-based compensation: Fulfillment $ , $ , $ Marketing , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( thousands, except per share data) December , December , Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Fixed assets, net , , Goodwill, net , , Other intangibles, net , Other equity investments , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , , $ , , \x92 Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Unearned revenue , , Interest payable , , Current portion long-term debt and other , , Total current liabilities , , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 deficit: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , Issued and outstanding shares\x97none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , , Issued and outstanding shares\x97 , and , shares , , Additional paid- capital , , , , Deferred stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income , , Accumulated deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total stockholders\x92 deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 deficit $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT ( thousands) Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Deferred Stock-Based Compensation Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Shares Amount Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) $ ( , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized losses Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Issuance common stock, net issuance costs , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Repayments note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation and other, net adjustments , , ( , ) \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized gains Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 \x97 ( , ) Income tax benefit stock awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) , ( , , ) ( , , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized gains Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Notes converted \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Income tax benefit stock awards \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , , ) $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. Through our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs, enable businesses and individuals sell virtually anything Amazon com\x92 millions customers operate six global websites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities, incentive discount offers, valuation investments, taxes, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts, any, and historical experience losses incurred. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, record valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Asset Retirement Obligations accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs return certain our leased facilities their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated restoration costs. Such amounts are not significant. Accounting Changes Inventories Effective January , , prospectively changed our inventory costing method from the specific identification method the FIFO method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the consolidated statements operations. received letter preferability for this change inventory costing from our independent auditors. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Effective January , , adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , which requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. evaluated our intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. accordance with Accounting Principles Board (\x93APB\x94) Opinion . , Accounting Changes , the effect these accounting changes reflected prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure, the change had been retroactively applied, follows ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net income (loss): Reported net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Goodwill amortization ( ) \x97 \x97 , Inventory costing change \x97 ( ) Adjusted net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share: Reported basic earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Goodwill amortization ( ) \x97 \x97 Inventory costing change \x97 ( ) \x97 Adjusted basic earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes $ million, $ per share, for , related amortization other intangibles that was classified goodwill effective January , . Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased under capital leases, are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites. expense all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software, generally two years. Goodwill Net goodwill declined $ million during relating the disposition subsidiary that was previously included our North America segment. performed impairment analysis and , required SFAS . , and concluded that the carrying amount goodwill was appropriate. During and , did not acquire any additional goodwill. Other Intangibles Other intangibles consist the following ( thousands): December , December , Other Intangibles, Gross Accumulated Amortization Other Intangibles, Net ( ) Other Intangibles, Gross Accumulated Amortization Other Intangibles, Net Contract-based ( ) $ , $ ( , ) $ \x97 $ , $ ( , ) $ , Marketing-related , ( , ) , ( , ) Technology-based , ( , ) , ( , ) Customer-related , ( , ) , ( , ) Other intangibles $ , $ ( , ) $ $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) Net intangibles $ , were disposed during connection with the sale subsidiary. ( ) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized the end . Investments The initial carrying cost our investments the price paid acquisition. Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. record our investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other equity investments\x94 and our share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Equity losses equity-method investees, net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. All other equity investments, which consist investments for which not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings, and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, classify our equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists review qualitative and quantitative factors, including quoted market prices, available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent financing rounds; other conditions that bear the value our investments. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset\x92 carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Other Assets Other assets consist primarily professional fees paid connection with the issuance our long-term debt. These fees are amortized ratably into interest expense over the life the underlying debt. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance our service obligations and amortized ratably over the service period. Income Taxes recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. provide valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets the extent such assets are not expected realized. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: ( ) the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; ( ) there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and ( ) delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary obligor transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience Outbound shipping charges customers are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges , packaging supplies, and certain costs associated with our service revenues. instances where incur fulfillment costs ship products behalf third-party sellers provide customer service their behalf, such costs are classified \x93Cost sales\x94 rather than \x93Fulfillment\x94 the consolidated statements operations. All credit card fees and bad debt costs, including those associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, are classified \x93Fulfillment\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation, are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising; -line marketing, including amounts paid under our Syndicated Stores and Associates programs; public relations expenditures; and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Advertising and other promotional costs, which are expensed incurred, are included marketing expense and were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations personnel; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including upgrades and enhancements our websites, which are capitalized and depreciated over two years. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, content, and website development, net accumulated depreciation, were $ million and $ million December , and . Costs capitalized during the application development stage for internal-use software, offset corresponding amortization, were net deferral $ million , net expense $ million , and net deferral $ million . Stock-Based Compensation generally have three categories stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, and stock options. account for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting results compensation expense the extent option exercise prices are set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent stock awards have been subject exchange offer, other modifications, performance criteria, such awards are subject variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based quoted prices our common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. the extent stock options are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Since October, , grant restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation; however, certain our foreign jurisdictions, continue grant stock options. Stock options granted after December , are subject variable accounting treatment. Restricted stock units and restricted stock are generally measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the corresponding service period using the accelerated method under FASB Interpretation (\x93FIN\x94) . , Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option Award Plans . the extent restricted stock restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 record the employer portion payroll tax expense resulting from exercises stock options and vesting restricted stock \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 our consolidated statements operations and not include such expenses \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under our ( ) program. Stock-based compensation consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Stock awards\x97variable accounting $ , $ , $ Fixed accounting ( ): Restricted stock units , , \x97 Restricted stock ( ) , , , Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , ( ) Fair value awards determined grant date and recognized expense over the service period. ( ) Includes expense associated with matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan. granted stock awards representing million, million, and million shares common stock during , , and . These awards generally vest over service periods between three and six years. The following table summarizes relevant information the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure, had been applied all stock-based awards ( thousands, except per share data): Years Ended December , Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Add: Stock-based compensation, reported , , , Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined under fair value based method for all awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income (loss)\x97SFAS . adjusted $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97SFAS . adjusted $ $ ( ) $ ( ) AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The fair value for each stock option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming dividends and the following assumptions: Years Ended December , Average risk-free interest rate % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % The per share weighted average fair value stock awards, including restricted stock units, granted , , and , was $ , $ , and $ . Outstanding stock awards were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Stock options ( )( ) , , , Restricted stock units ( ) , , Outstanding stock awards, excluded from common stock outstanding , , , Restricted stock ( ) , , Total outstanding stock awards , , , ( ) The weighted average exercise price was $ , $ , and $ December , , , and . ( ) Includes million, million, and million options December , , , and subject variable accounting treatment. ( ) Includes , and , restricted stock units subject variable accounting treatment December , and . ( ) Included issued and outstanding common stock. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. Additionally, may determine that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future expansion needs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. elect utilize this office space, accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities , will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments \x93General and administrative\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Foreign Currency have the following internationally-focused websites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, well most the related expenses incurred from those operations, are denominated the AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) functional currencies the resident countries. Additionally, the functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 deficit and the \x93Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents,\x94 the consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 provision SFAS . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, where settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. Currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were historically recorded equity translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurement intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. The effect for the fourth quarter and the year ended December , was increase net income $ million. The effect this treatment was very significant our net income for the year and for the quarter. Had not changed our intent the settlement these intercompany balances, would have had net loss for and our net income for the fourth quarter would have been reduced almost %. See \x93Note \x96 Remeasurement % PEACS and Other\x94 for further discussion. Derivative Financial Instruments accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, record derivative instruments the consolidated balance sheets fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current results operations other comprehensive income (loss) depending whether derivative designated part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. For derivative designated fair value hedge, the gain loss the derivative the period change and the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the hedged risk are recognized results operations. For derivative designated cash flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified into results operations when the hedged exposure affects results operations. The ineffective portion the gain loss cash flow hedge recognized currently results operations. For derivative not designated hedging instrument, the gain loss recognized currently results operations. are exposed the risk fluctuations foreign exchange rates between the . Dollar and the Euro associated with our % PEACS (See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94). Currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other.\x94 During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) hold warrants purchase equity securities other companies. Warrants that can exercised and settled delivery net shares such that pay cash upon exercise are derivative financial instruments. Our net share warrants are not designated hedging instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other,\x94 the period change. determine the fair value our warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for our private-company warrants. The adoption SFAS . January , resulted cumulative transition losses $ million included the results operations and stockholders\x92 deficit adjustment $ million. Transition losses included \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 warrants previously reported fair value and classified available-for-sale, and approximately $ million losses warrants previously reported cost. warrant investments are designated hedging instruments. Transition losses \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses the swap agreement designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS offset the approximately $ million losses reclassified results operations derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Earnings (Loss) Per Share accordance with SFAS . , Earnings Per Share , the weighted average shares used calculate basic earnings (loss) per share excludes the weighted average restricted shares outstanding because they are subject repurchase forfeiture. The effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive for periods that have net loss and, accordingly, excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share. The dilutive effect stock awards and restricted stock included the calculation weighted average shares, using the treasury stock method, for periods that have net income. The \x93 converted\x94 number shares associated with each our convertible debt instruments are excluded from diluted shares their effect anti-dilutive. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Recent Accounting Pronouncements January , the FASB issued FIN . , Consolidation Variable Interest Entities , effective for the period ending December , . This Interpretation requires the consolidation Variable Interest Entities which company holds qualifying variable interest. The provisions this Interpretation not have significant effect our financial position operating results. May , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . establishes standards for how company classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity. SFAS . effective for financial instruments entered into modified after May , , and otherwise effective the beginning the first interim period beginning after September , . The provisions this Standard not have significant effect our financial position operating results. November , the EITF reached consensus issue - , Application EITF - Resellers Sales Incentives Offered Consumers Manufacturers, addressing how reseller account for the redemption manufacturer\x92 coupon consumer the reseller\x92 location. The final consensus eliminates AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) the option that permitted resellers report the value the consideration received reduction costs goods sold, but rather mandates that recorded revenue. EITF - applicable new arrangements, including modifications existing arrangements, entered into fiscal periods beginning after November , . The provisions this consensus not have significant effect our financial position operating results. November , the EITF reached consensus issue - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application Certain Investments . EITF - establishes additional disclosure requirements for each category FAS investments loss position. Effective for years ending after December , , companies must disclose the aggregate amount unrealized losses, and the aggregate related fair value their investments with unrealized losses. Those investments are required segregated those loss position for less than twelve months and those loss position for greater than twelve months. Additionally, certain qualitative disclosures should made clarify circumstance whereby investment\x92 fair value that below cost not considered other-than-temporary. The provisions this consensus not have significant effect our financial position operating results, and the disclosure requirements are included \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, our cash and marketable securities ( thousands): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , , \x97 , Cash and cash equivalents , , , \x97 , , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Commercial paper and short-term obligations \x97 Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Asset-backed and agency securities , ( ) , . Treasury notes and bonds , ( ) , Equity securities , , \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable Securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (all less than twelve months), and the amount the impairments relative the underlying portfolio and conclude that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , , \x97 , Total cash and cash equivalents , , \x97 , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Asset-backed and agency securities , , \x97 , . Treasury notes and bonds , , ( ) , Equity securities , \x97 \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable Securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. The following table summarizes contractual maturities our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( thousands): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through three years , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities , , $ , $ , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities for the years ended December , , , and . are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( thousands): December , Gross Fixed Assets ( ): Fulfillment and customer service $ , $ , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Gross fixed assets , , Accumulated Depreciation ( ): Fulfillment and customer service , , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Total accumulated depreciation , , Total fixed assets, net $ , $ , ( ) Excludes the cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million for and , and $ million for . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ million and $ million for the years ended December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ million and $ million for the years ended December , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER EQUITY INVESTMENTS Activity our equity-method and cost-method investments for the years ended December , and follows ( thousands): Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Balance, December , $ , $ , $ , Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Realized gains sales investments, net , , , Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Unrealized losses available-for-sale investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( ) \x97 Balance, December , ( )( ) , , Equity-method losses, net ( ) \x97 ( ) Sales investments fair value \x97 ( ) ( ) Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Unrealized gains available-for-sale investments, net \x97 , , Change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 , , Balance, December , ( )( ) $ \x97 $ , $ , ( ) December , and , cost-method investments recorded \x93Other equity investments\x94 included $ million and $ million investments recorded fair value and $ million and $ million investments carried cost. Gross unrealized gains and losses were not significant December , and . ( ) December , and , the fair value our investments the common stock publicly held equity-method investees was $ million and $ million, primarily relating our investment drugstore com, inc. Currently, not hold over % interest any our investments. Note \x97UNEARNED REVENUE During and , activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , All amounts recorded accounts receivable, including amounts associated with unearned revenue, are legally due and contractually enforceable. December , accounts receivable, net associated with unearned revenue was $ million. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER Our long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( thousands): December , % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February $ , , $ , , % PEACS due February , , % Senior Discount Notes due May \x97 , Long-term restructuring liabilities , , Euro currency swap \x97 , Capital lease obligations , , Other long-term debt , , , , , , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) Less current portion other long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total long-term debt and other $ , , $ , , % PEACS February , , completed offering million Euros % PEACS due . The % PEACS are convertible, the holder\x92 option, into our common stock conversion price Euros per share. The . Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % PEACS, whole part, paying the principal million Euros, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. premium payment required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants December , . During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest. Although neither party made cash payments terminate the agreement, recorded non-cash loss $ million \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 representing the remaining basis our swap asset. December , , the remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency Swap, recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income,\x94 was $ million. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , this accumulated loss will amortized \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 over the life the % PEACS. net gains losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness were recognized our results operations during the year ended December , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) redeem otherwise restructure our % PEACS prior maturity , any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the Euro Currency Swap will recorded charge \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other.\x94 Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and . The fair value the swap obligation was $ million December , . % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into our common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, whole part, paying the principal plus redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. December , , the redemption premium was % the principal, and decreased % February , and will decrease basis points annually until maturity. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants December , . November , , redeemed aggregate principal amount $ million our % Convertible Subordinated Notes. provided the underlying indenture, the redemption price $ million represented $ million ( %) premium over the face amount the redeemed % Convertible Subordinated Notes. recorded charge the fourth quarter , classified \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other,\x94 approximately $ million related the redemption, consisting the $ million premium and approximately $ million unamortized deferred issuance charges. Accrued and unpaid interest $ million, from August , through November , , was also paid redemption. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value our % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and was $ billion (principal balance $ billion) and $ million (principal balance $ billion). % Senior Discount Notes During the second quarter , redeemed all our remaining % Senior Discount Notes for $ million, consisting principal repayment $ million and % premium $ million. Included our results for the year ended December , charge $ million \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 representing the % premium and $ million remaining deferred issuance charges. Additionally, paid $ million holders our % Senior Discount Notes for interest accrued between May , and AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) May , . The interest payment $ million, was recorded \x93Interest expense\x94 the consolidated statement operations. Subsequent Events January , , announced that will redeem $ million principal amount our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , . The redemption price set % the principal amount maturity, plus accrued and unpaid interest from February through February , . After completion the redemption $ million principal, there will approximately $ million aggregate principal amount % Convertible Subordinated Notes outstanding. Additionally, January , , our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. Note \x97COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments currently lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , , and was $ million, $ million, and $ million. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases support normal operations December , ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Other commitments: Debt principal and other ( )( ) , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest ( )( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our principal debt obligation under this instrument since issuance has increased $ million December , . cannot predict the performance the . Dollar relative the Euro. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) ( ) See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our equipment-related operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional assets and obligations our balance sheet December , . Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ , Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases, and with fluctuations our market capitalization and credit-rating. The change the total amount collateral required pledged under these agreements was follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Credit ( ) Swap Agreement ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , ( ) have standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. The outstanding commitments under these facilities December , totaled $ million. ( ) Due the termination the Euro Currency Swap, collateral previously pledged under this arrangement longer subject restrictions. ( ) The required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million and additional $ million our market capitalization below $ billion and $ billion. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Legal Proceedings number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Act. August , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state false claims acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. July , , Pinpoint, Inc. filed complaint for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois against and several other companies with which have commercial agreements. The complaint alleges that our personalization technology infringes several patents obtained Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , Soverain Software LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes several patents obtained Soverain purporting cover \x93Internet Server Access Control and Monitoring Systems\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Network Sales Systems\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, future results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. Inventory Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our inventory purchases. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Note \x97STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT Preferred Stock have authorized , , shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock shares were outstanding during , , . Stock Award Plans Our stock award plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan, and the Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under these plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Incentive Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan, which maximum , , shares that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Incentive Plan. connection with certain acquisitions and , assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally granted under the acquired companies\x92 stock option plans. Our stock award plans well the assumed stock award plans are hereby collectively referred the \x93Plans.\x94 , transitioned using restricted stock units, awarded under the Stock Incentive Plan, our primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Employees vest restricted stock unit awards ratably over the corresponding service term, generally three six years. relates stock option awards, our Board Directors generally sets exercise price not less than the fair market value our common stock the date grant. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under our plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally became exercisable immediately, but are subject restriction transfer that lapses over period time. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Certain outstanding options that were granted during and vest and become exercisable the rate % after year one and % after year two. During the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options employees meeting certain eligibility criteria. Options granted pursuant this stock option exchange vested and became exercisable the rate % after months from the date grant and % per month for the succeeding months. Certain options granted the third quarter generally vest and become exercisable follows: ( ) the option vests quarterly equal installments over , month period commencing dates ranging from grant date October , , ( ) the option vests % % date approximately months from date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period, (iii) the option vests % % dates approximately months and months from the date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the exercise price upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the vesting schedule. December , , approximately , shares restricted common stock, which includes AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) restricted shares issued connection with acquisitions well shares issued certain key employees and , were subject repurchase forfeiture. Stock Award Activity During , restricted stock units increased million shares, resulting from grants million, offset vesting million shares and cancellation million shares. Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Outstanding restricted stock units , , , The following table summarizes our stock option activity: Number Shares ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Range Exercise Prices Number Awards ( thousands) Remaining Life (yrs) Weighted Average Exercise Price Number Awards ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price \x96 , , \x96 , , \x96 , \x96 , \x96 , \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Comprehensive Income (Loss) The changes the components comprehensive income (loss) were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign-currency translation gains (losses), net , , ( , ) Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during year , , ( , ) Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) , Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities , , , Net activity Euro currency swap (See Note ): Remeasurement Euro currency swap fair value , , ( , ) Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) , Amortization net unrealized losses Euro Currency Swap , \x97 \x97 Net activity Euro currency swap , , ( , ) Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 \x97 ( , ) Cumulative effect accounting change adopt SFAS . \x97 \x97 ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , , ( , ) Comprehensive income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Net unrealized gains foreign currency translation $ , $ , Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities , , Net unrealized losses Euro currency swap ( , ) ( , ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income , , Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock awards, including restricted stock units , Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes ( ) , Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS , Total common stock reserved for future issuance , ( ) See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net earnings (loss) per share ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Income (loss) before change accounting principle $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Weighted average shares restricted stock ( ) ( , ) ( ) Shares used computation basic earnings (loss) per share , , , Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards ( ) , \x97 \x97 Shares used computation diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) Total earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) Total earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) The effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive for periods that have net loss and, accordingly, excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share those periods. The dilutive effect stock awards and restricted stock included the calculation weighted average shares, using the treasury stock method, for periods that have net income. Note \x97RESTRUCTURING-RELATED AND OTHER the first quarter , announced and began implementation our operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline our organizational structure, consolidate certain our fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation our Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure our McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington fulfillment centers; closure our customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however may adjust our restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. Restructuring-related expenses $ million were incurred during the year ended December , relating updated estimates sub-lease income due weakness real estate markets. Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million and $ million for and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ \x97 $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees, and other miscellaneous restructuring costs \x97 , Total restructuring-related charges $ $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance December , Subsequent Accruals, Net Payments Balance December , Due Within Months( ) Due After Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) ( ) , $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( ) Total other income (expense), net $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) Includes loss $ million and $ million for and , and gain $ million for associated with the remeasurement from Euros . Dollars interest obligations our % PEACS. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Note \x97REMEASUREMENT % PEACS AND OTHER Remeasurement % PEACS and other consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gain (loss) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Gain (loss) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , , ( , ) Gain sales equity investments, net , \x97 Gain from terminations commercial contracts \x97 \x97 , Net gain from acquisition investments third parties \x97 \x97 Loss redemption long-term debt (See Note ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Loss termination Euro Currency Swap (See Note ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Amortization net unrealized losses Euro Currency Swap (See Note ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Foreign currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , \x97 \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total remeasurement % PEACS and other $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Represents the gain associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates (See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 ). ( ) Includes $ million gain the sale our mail-order toy catalog business for $ million cash recorded the third quarter . Note \x97INCOME TAXES have provided for current and deferred . federal, state, and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where our subsidiaries produce taxable income. December , , have recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. have provided valuation allowance for the remainder our deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components our net deferred tax assets, which are included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets,\x94 are follows ( thousands): December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses $ , $ , Investment-related , , Revenue items , , Expense items , , Total gross deferred tax assets , , , , Less valuation allowance ( , , ) ( , , ) Net deferred tax assets , , Deferred tax liabilities\x97Expense items ( , ) ( ) Total net deferred tax asset $ , $ , December , , had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begin expire . Approximately $ billion our net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Note \x97EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN have ( ) savings plan covering substantially all our . employees, and eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. Beginning April , began matching portion employee contributions using our common stock. During the year ended December , , issued , shares our common stock connection with matching contributions for the ( ) savings plan. Note \x97SEGMENT INFORMATION present segment information along the same lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. During the first quarter , our chief operating decision maker began reviewing operating results along two lines: North America and International. This change was prompted the increasing prominence and overall importance third-party sellers our websites, well how both capital and human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment operations. measure operating results our segments using internal performance measure direct segment operating expenses that exclude stock-based compensation, amortization other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges, each which not allocated segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated segment results. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products through www amazon com and www amazon (including from third-party sellers), from North America focused Syndicated Stores and mail-order catalogs, and from non-retail activities such North America focused Merchant com, marketing, and promotional agreements. International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products through internationally focused websites, such www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon (including from third-party sellers), from internationally focused Syndicated Stores and from non-retail activities such internationally focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income (loss) follows ( thousands): Year Ended : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( ) Net income $ , Year Ended : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , Segment operating income , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle Net loss $ ( , ) AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , Segment operating income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) Net loss $ ( , ) Net sales shipped customers outside the . represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for , , and . Shipments into the United Kingdom represents approximately % and % total net sales and , and shipments into Germany represents % total net sales . Net fixed assets held locations outside the . were $ million December , . Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( thousands): North America International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , Note \x97FAIR VALUES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values our financial instruments were follows ( thousands): December , December , Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , , $ , $ , Marketable securities ( ) , , , , Other equity investments ( ) , , , , Euro currency swap ( ) \x97 \x97 , , Long-term debt ( ) , , , , , , , , ( ) The fair value marketable securities determined from publicly quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.\x94 ( ) The fair value other equity investments determined from publicly quoted prices, plus the carrying amount privately-held investments for which market values are not readily determinable. evaluate \x93Other equity investments\x94 for impairment accordance with our stated policy. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies,\x94 and \x93Note \x97Other Equity Investments.\x94 ( ) The fair value the Euro currency swap was determined based third-party valuation. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94. ( ) The fair value our long-term debt determined based quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97SUBSEQUENT EVENTS January , , announced that will redeem $ million principal amount our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , . The redemption price set % the principal amount maturity, plus accrued and unpaid interest from February through February , . After completion the redemption $ million principal, there will approximately $ million aggregate principal amount % Convertible Subordinated Notes outstanding. Additionally, January , , our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , , and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Net income (loss) , , ( , ) ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. Item . Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Act, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures the end the period covered this report. Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. should noted that any system controls based part upon certain assumptions designed obtain reasonable (and not absolute) assurance its effectiveness, and there can assurance that any design will succeed achieving its stated goals. During the most recent fiscal quarter, there has not occurred any change our internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Deficit for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Diego Piacentini, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) Reports Form - : October , , filed Form - announcing our third quarter financial results. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, February , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / EFFREY . EZOS Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated February , . Signature Title / / EFFREY . EZOS Jeffrey . Bezos Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) / / HOMAS . ZKUTAK Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) / / ARK . EEK Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) / / . LBERG Tom . Alberg Director / / . OHN OERR . John Doerr Director / / ILLIAM . ORDON William . Gordon Director / / HOMAS . YDER Thomas . Ryder Director / / ATRICIA . TONESIFER Patricia . Stonesifer Director AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE \x97VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Accounts receivable and other current assets \x97Reserves Year Ended Balance Beginning Period Charged Costs and Expenses Amounts Written Off Balance End Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , , , ( ) , December , , , ( , ) , EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Diego Piacentini, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties not own any real estate. Our principal office facilities the . are located several leased facilities Seattle, Washington under leases that expire various times through April . Our corporate office facilities, excluding customer service office space, the . comprise total , square feet. Additionally, have , square feet office space that subleased vacant under lease agreements that expire various times through April . Our . warehousing and fulfillment operations are housed six fulfillment centers located New Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas; Lexington and Campbellsville, Kentucky; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. These fulfillment centers comprise total approximately million square feet. Our fulfillment center leases expire from through . also lease six facilities located near our fulfillment centers, comprising approximately million square feet, which use for off-site storage and shipping. These offsite storage and shipping facilities are under relatively short-term lease agreements that expire various times through July and one longer-term lease through June ; following expiration, intend renew certain these leases consolidate into new offsite facilities, both. Our . customer service operations occupy approximately , square feet office space and are located Tacoma, Washington; Huntington, West Virginia; and Grand Forks, North Dakota. The lease terms these facilities expire from . Our data-center facilities have , combined square feet, including approximately , square feet vacant space one facility. These facilities are under leases that expire and . lease additional properties outside the ., including approximately , square feet corporate office space Germany, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom, which excludes approximately , square feet vacant office space Germany. also lease approximately million combined square feet available fulfillment center space Germany, France, and the United Kingdom; and approximately , combined square feet customer service space Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom. The fulfillment centers Germany, the United Kingdom, and France are located Bad Hersfeld, Marston Gate, and Orleans, and the lease terms expire December , October , and March . believe our properties are suitable and adequate for our present needs, and periodically evaluate whether additional facilities are necessary. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings See, Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplemental Data\x97Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies\x97Legal Proceedings.\x94 ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted for vote our shareholders during the fourth quarter . PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\x92 Common Stock and Related Shareholder Matters Market Information Our common stock traded the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol \x93AMZN.\x94 The following table sets forth the high and low intraday sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated, reported the Nasdaq National Market. High Low Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Year ended December , First Quarter $ $ Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Holders February , , there were , shareholders record our common stock, although there much larger number beneficial owners. Dividends have never declared paid cash dividends our common stock. See Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Recent Sales Unregistered Securities None. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\x94 and the information contained Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations.\x94 Historical results are not necessarily indicative future results. and for the Years Ended December , ( thousands, except per share data) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net sales , , , , , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , , , Income (loss) from operations , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest income , , , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) , , , , , Balance Sheet and Other Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , $ , $ , $ , Marketable securities , , , , , Total assets , , , , , , , , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , , , , , , , Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) ( , , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) ( , ) , ( ) For further discussion earnings (loss) per share, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 and \x93\x97Note \x97Earnings (Loss) Per Share.\x94 ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section should read conjunction with \x93Forward-Looking Statements\x94 below, well Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 and Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\x94 Overview Our primary source revenue the sale wide range products and services customers our global websites . The products offered our websites include products have purchased from distributors and manufacturers and products sold third parties our websites. Generally, recognize revenue the seller record from items offer from our inventory and recognize our net share revenue items offered third parties. Our financial focus long-term, sustainable growth free cash flow . also seek minimize shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility issue shares for strategic purposes, such financings and aligning employee interests with shareholders. Free cash flow driven primarily increasing consolidated segment operating profit and efficiently managing working capital and capital expenditures. Increases consolidated segment operating profit result from increases sales through our websites and focus keeping costs low. increase sales, focus improving all aspects the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, increasing selection, expanding product information, improving ease use, and earning customer trust. Our price reductions take several forms: reduce the sales prices products sell, recruit third-party sellers compete with product detail pages, and reduce eliminate the cost shipping the consumer. moved restricted stock units our primary vehicle for equity compensation late . Restricted stock units result charges our income statement; however, believe they better align the interests our shareholders and employees. Total shares outstanding plus employee stock awards are essentially unchanged the end compared . leverage our fixed customer experience costs and work reduce our variable cost per unit. Our customer experience costs, specifically the costs necessary build, enhance, and add features our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers, are largely fixed costs. The customer experience costs that remain variable percentage sales include product costs, credit-card processing fees, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and certain aspects our marketing costs. focus maintaining lean culture reducing defects our processes, and obtaining volume discounts from suppliers decrease our variable costs per unit basis and enable lower prices for customers. Because are able turn our inventory quickly, have negative operating cycle that source cash flow . average, our high inventory velocity means generally collect from our customers before our payments suppliers come due. Inventory turnover was , , and for , , and . expect some variability inventory turnover over time since affected several factors, including our continuing focus -stock inventory availability, our future investment new geographies and product lines, and the extent choose utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days were , , and December , , , and . expect some variability accounts payable days over time since they are affected several factors, including the mix product sales, the mix suppliers, and changes payment terms over time, including the effect negotiating better pricing from our suppliers exchange for shorter payment terms. Our spending technology and content will increase add computer scientists and software engineers continue improve our process efficiency and enhance the customer experience our websites . believe that advances technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost processing power, the improved consumer experience the Internet outside the workplace through lower cost broad-band service the home, and the advances wireless connectivity will continue improve the consumer experience the Internet and increase the ubiquity computers people\x92 lives . Our challenge will continue build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will best take advantage continued advances technology. Free cash flow defined net cash provided operating activities less purchases fixed assets, including capitalized internal-use software and website development, both which are presented our statements cash flows. The operating cycle number days sales inventory plus number days sales accounts receivable minus accounts payable days. Inventory turnover the quotient cost sales average inventory. Accounts payable days, calculated the quotient accounts payable cost sales, multiplied the number days the period. Finally, want emphasize that not believe that our reported net income for the year ended December , should viewed material positive event should considered predictive future results. discuss Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Foreign Currencies,\x94 had not been for our decision settle intercompany balances denominated foreign currencies, would have reported small net loss for . Also, our financial reporting currency the . Dollar, our total revenue, profit, and free cash flow has significantly benefited each the past two years from weakness the . Dollar comparison the currencies our faster-growing international websites. While believe that our increasing diversification beyond the . economy through our fast growing international businesses benefits our shareholders, important evaluate our growth rates after the effect currency changes. For example, although grew % during , holding currency exchange constant with the prior year our growth would have been %. the future, this trend may reverse, and our consolidated . Dollar revenue growth rates would less than our local-currency growth rates. For description , and additional information about, each line item summarized below, refer Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report Form - includes forward-looking statements within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act . All statements other than statements historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results operations financial position, made this Annual Report Form - are forward-looking. use words such anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management\x92 current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for variety reasons, including, among others, the rate growth the economy general and the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, world events, the amount that invest new business opportunities and the timing those investments, the mix products sold customers, the mix net sales derived from products compared with services, competition, risks inventory management, the degree which enter into commercial agreements and strategic transactions and maintain and develop commercial relationships, foreign exchange risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion, and risks fulfillment, throughput, and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, well other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations, are described greater detail Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,\x94 which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, the factors that could cause actual results differ significantly from management\x92 expectations. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined company\x92 critical accounting policies the ones that are most important the portrayal the company\x92 financial condition and results operations, and which require the company make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often result the need make estimates matters that are inherently uncertain. Based this definition, have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant understanding our results. For additional information see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies.\x94 Although believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, conditions. Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred the carrier services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: ( ) the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; ( ) there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and ( ) delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. When are the primary obligor transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience. also record allowance, using historical experience, for losses incur our payment guarantee from disputes customers against third-party sellers. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the first- first-out (\x93FIFO\x94) method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, record valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. Currency Effect Intercompany Balances provision Statement Financial Accounting Standards (\x93SFAS\x94) . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, where settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. Currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were historically recorded equity translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurement intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. The effect for the fourth quarter and the year ended December , was increase net income $ million. The effect this treatment was very significant our net income for the year and for the quarter. Had not changed our intent the settlement these intercompany balances, would have had net loss for and our net income for the fourth quarter would have been reduced almost %. See Item Part \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Remeasurement % PEACS and Other\x94 for further discussion. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. Additionally, may determine that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future expansion needs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. elect utilize this office space, accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities , will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments \x93General and administrative\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities which were $ billion, $ billion, and $ million December , , and . Additionally, received cash from exercises employee stock awards $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . expect that stock award exercises will decline source cash result our decision use restricted stock unit awards our primary form stock-based compensation. December , and , held $ million and $ million foreign currencies, primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. During , our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were utilized redeem our % Senior Discount Notes due (\x93 % Senior Discount Notes\x94) and portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (\x93 % Convertible Subordinated Notes\x94). Total redemption payments, including redemption premiums, totaled $ million. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers and third-party sellers, offset cash payments make suppliers products and services, employee compensation, and interest payments our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers and third-party sellers generally corresponds our net sales. Because our customers primarily use credit cards buy from , our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash paid inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost sales, adjusted for increases decreases inventory and payable levels. generally experience net cash outflow during the first quarter each year, pay suppliers for inventory that was purchased and sold the fourth quarter. the end , held $ million products inventories, increase $ million comparison the prior year. The increase inventories corresponds with our efforts add product categories, increase selection and availability both existing and new product categories, take advantage additional discounts offered suppliers, and the effect foreign exchange rates. Additionally, our accounts payable December , increased $ million over the prior year end corresponding with increased sales volume. Since our % PEACS, which are due , are denominated Euros, our . Dollar equivalent interest payments fluctuate with the Euro . Dollar exchange rate. , the . Dollar weakened considerably relative the Euro resulting higher . Dollar equivalent interest payments. Additionally, began accruing interest our % Senior Discount Notes and paid $ million interest when repaid the full principal amount. also made interest payments $ million associated with the $ million partial redemption our % Convertible Subordinated Notes; this payment was otherwise scheduled paid . currently not hedge our exposure foreign currency effects our interest payments relating the % PEACS, and, result, any fluctuations the exchange rate will have effect our interest expense. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Cash provided (used ) investing activities corresponds with our buying and selling marketable securities and purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software costs. Cash provided investing activities was $ million during , while cash used investing activities was $ million and $ million during and . Our capital expenditures were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient keep our facilities and equipment suitable operating condition. Cash provided (used ) financing activities consists primarily cash proceeds from exercises stock options, repayment long-term debt, and repayment capital lease obligations. Cash used financing activities was $ million during resulting primarily from repayments long-term debt obligations. Cash provided financing activities was $ million during and . expect cash proceeds from exercises employee stock options decline over time plan continue issuing restricted stock units our primary vehicle for employee stock-based awards. January , our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem, otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. addition this debt repurchase program, February , , will redeem $ million our % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments December , ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Other commitments: Debt principal and other ( )( ) , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest ( )( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Purchase obligations ( ) , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our principal debt obligation under this instrument since issuance has increased $ million through December , . cannot predict the performance the . Dollar relative the Euro. ( ) See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our equipment-related operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional assets and obligations our balance sheet December , . ( ) Consists legally-binding commitments purchase inventory. Legally-binding commitments associated with non-inventory purchases are not significant. believe that current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will sufficient meet our anticipated operating cash needs for least the next months. However, any projections future cash needs and cash flows are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results.\x94 continually evaluate opportunities sell additional equity debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, repurchase, refinance, otherwise restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons further strengthen our financial position (and our Board Directors has authorized the debt repurchase program discussed above). The sale additional equity convertible debt securities would likely dilutive our shareholders. addition, will, from time time, consider the acquisition , investment , complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements cause issue additional equity debt securities. not currently have line- -credit, and there can assurance that lines- -credit other financing instruments will available amounts terms acceptable , all. Results Operations Segment Operating Income (Loss) Years Ended December , (amounts thousands) Segment Operating Income: North America $ , $ , $ , International , ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ ( , ) Year-over-year improvement: North America % % International , Consolidated Segment Operating Margin: North America % % % International ( ) Consolidated ( ) The key drivers the year-over-year improvement segment operating income are revenue growth and efficiencies our fulfillment process. Revenue growth was driven, part, lowering prices, including increased adoption our customers our free shipping offers. Operating expenses our North America and International segments increased $ million and $ million, % and % comparison the prior year. The increases segment operating expenses were primarily related variable costs, including fulfillment-related costs for picking, packaging, and shipping our products customers, and credit card fees, offset reductions most other expense categories. Segment operating expenses represented % and % net sales for North America and International segments, compared with % and % the prior year. The year-over-year declines segment operating expenses percentage net sales result from leveraging the fixed cost portion our operations over increased volume. See \x93Net Sales and Gross Profit\x94 below for additional information about increases our sales volume. , improvements our income (loss) from operations over the prior year were also significantly affected the decline amortization charges, primarily relating the required adoption SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , and lower restructuring-related charges. Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Net Sales North America Media $ , , $ , , $ , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other , , , Total North America , , , , , , International Media , , , , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , Other , , Total International , , , , , Consolidated Media , , , , , , Electronics and other general merchandise , , , , Other , , , Total consolidated $ , , $ , , $ , , Net Sales Growth Rate North America Media % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total North America International Media Electronics and other general merchandise Other ( ) Total International Consolidated Media Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total Consolidated Consolidated Revenue Mix Media % % % Electronics and other general merchandise Other Total Consolidated % % % Revenue growth due increased demand, which was driven increased selection, lower prices, including from our free shipping offers, and improved features and services available our websites, including our Amazon Marketplace and Merchant@ programs. Revenues improved $ million and $ million and comparison the preceding years due changes foreign exchange rates the . Dollar weakened. The future growth our International segment, measured . Dollars, may fluctuate significantly with changes foreign exchange rates. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results\x97 Have Foreign Exchange Risk.\x94 also anticipate that, the revenue base our International segment increases, the percentage growth rates local currency will likely decline over time. Sales products third-party sellers our websites continue increase. Since revenues from these sales are recorded net amount, they result lower revenues but higher gross margins per unit, there are associated costs classified within cost sales, unless perform fulfillment services. the extent product sales third-party sellers continue increase, anticipate improvement gross margin, offset the extent offer additional broader price reductions, free shipping offers, and other promotions. Gross profit follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gross Profit North America $ , $ , $ , International , , , Consolidated $ , , $ , $ , Gross Profit Growth Rate North America % % International Consolidated Gross Margin North America % % % International Consolidated The increases gross profit comparison with the prior years corresponds with increased revenue, offset our year-round free shipping offers and lower prices for customers. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based several factors, including our mix sales during the year, sales volumes third-party sellers, competitive pricing decisions, changes vendor pricing, and general efforts reduce prices for our customers over time, well the extent which our customers accept our free shipping offers. These free shipping offers reduce shipping revenue percentage sales and reduce our gross margins retail sales. particular, commenced offering free super saver delivery the . , and this decision decreased the gross margins for our International segment. view our shipping offers effective marketing tool and intend continue offering them. Gross profit benefited $ million comparison due changes foreign exchange rates the . Dollar weakened. Supplemental information about shipping results follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Supplemental Information Shipping Activity Shipping revenue $ , $ , $ , Net shipping cost ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) believe that offering low prices our customers fundamental our future success. One way offer lower prices through free-shipping alternatives that result net cost delivering products. seek offset these costs over time through achieving higher sales volumes and better operating efficiencies and negotiating better terms with our suppliers. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing %, %, and % net sales. The increase fulfillment costs comparison with the prior year primarily relates variable costs corresponding with sales volume and our mix product sales. The mix product sales affects fulfillment costs per shipment based variations shape and weight our products. The improvement fulfillment costs percentage net sales results from improvements productivity and accuracy, the increase units fulfilled, which leverages the fixed-cost portion our fulfillment network, efficiencies gained through utilization fulfillment services provided third parties, decline customer service contacts per order resulting from improvements our operations, and enhancements our customer self-service features available our websites. These improvements were offset, part, credit card fees associated with third-party seller transactions, which represent significant percentage relative commission amounts earned, and result negatively affect fulfillment percentage net sales. Marketing Marketing expenses, net -operative marketing reimbursements, were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing %, %, and % net sales. Although not expect them , -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. direct customers our websites primarily through number online marketing channels, including our Syndicated Stores and Associates programs, which enable associated websites make our products available their audiences with fulfillment performed . Under these arrangements, pay sales commission product sales, which classified \x93Marketing\x94 our consolidated statements operations. Declines expense for marketing-related activities reflect management efforts cut ineffective marketing programs, well reduced rates charged for some online marketing activities. These decreases are partially offset increased investment marketing channels considered most effective driving incremental net sales, such targeted online advertising through various Web portals and our Associates program. expect absolute dollars spent marketing increase . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing %, %, and % net sales. The decline absolute dollars spent for primarily reflects improved expense management and general price reductions most expense categories, offset increases employee-related costs. The decline absolute dollars spent for primarily reflects our migration technology platform that utilizes less-costly technology infrastructure. expect absolute dollars spent technology and content increase during continue hire more computer scientists and software engineers, however percentage net sales, expect these costs remain flat possibly decline. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , representing % net sales for and , and % net sales for . generally expect administrative costs increase over time commensurate with the increasing size and complexity our business. , expect ongoing general and administrative costs increase absolute terms, however percentage net sales, expect these costs remain flat possibly decline. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . late , began issuing restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation. Previously, primarily issued -the-money stock options. certain our foreign jurisdictions, continue grant stock options. December , , had million stock awards outstanding, including million stock options, which had weighted average exercise price $ ; million restricted stock units; and million shares restricted stock. Common shares outstanding, which includes restricted stock, plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units, totaled million December , , flat with the prior year. For additional information about our stock-based compensation and awards, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies,\x94 and \x93\x97Note \x97Stockholders\x92 Deficit.\x94 Amortization Goodwill and Other Intangibles Amortization goodwill and other intangibles was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and . Goodwill longer amortized, accordance with GAAP, and based the current balance intangibles, absent any additional investment, amortization intangibles will not significant going forward. Restructuring-Related and Other Cash payments resulting from our January operational restructuring were $ million and $ million for and . Based currently available information, estimate the remaining restructuring-related cash outflows will follows ( thousands): Leases Other Total Years Ending December , $ , $ $ , , , , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Thereafter , \x97 , Total estimated cash outflows ( ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Cash flows are presented net estimated $ million sublease rentals. December , have signed sublease agreements totaling $ million. For additional information about our January operational restructuring, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Restructuring-Related and Other.\x94 Net Interest Expense generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- -intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance invested funds and the prevailing rates are earning them. The primary components our interest expense relate our debt instruments. During , redeemed our % Senior Discount Notes and redeemed portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes. December , , our total long-term indebtedness was $ billion. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 and \x93\x97Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was gain $ million and $ million for and , and loss $ million . These amounts consist gains sales marketable securities; state, foreign, and other taxes; and miscellaneous non-operating gains and losses. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net\x94 for additional information. Remeasurement % PEACS and Other Remeasurement % PEACS and other consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gain (loss) % PEACS ( ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Loss redemption long-term debt ( ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Foreign currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , \x97 \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) ( , ) , ( , ) Total remeasurement % PEACS and other $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Each period the remeasurement our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars results gains losses recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 for additional information repayments long-term debt . ( ) Represents the gain associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates (See Item Part \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x97Foreign Currencies\x94). future periods, remeasurement intercompany balances that remain outstanding will result gains losses being recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 our consolidated statements operations. ( ) Includes $ million loss relating the termination our Euro Currency Swap . See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94 for additional information the termination our Euro Currency Swap. result this termination, any fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange will have greater effect our interest expense. Income Taxes Subject certain limitations, have approximately $ billion net operating loss carryforwards that begin expire various times starting . Approximately $ billion our net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Income Taxes\x94 for additional information. Net Income (Loss) Although reported net income for the year ended , believe that this net income result should not viewed material positive event and not necessarily predictive future reported results for variety reasons. For example, had not changed our intent the settlement the intercompany balances during the fourth quarter, would have had small net loss for the year and our net income for the fourth quarter would have been reduced almost %. Additionally, are unable forecast the effect our future reported results certain items, including the stock-based compensation associated with variable accounting treatment and the gain loss associated with the remeasurement our % PEACS and intercompany balances that results from fluctuations foreign exchange rates. These items represented significant quarterly charges and gains during and may result significant charges gains future periods. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue was $ million and $ million December , and . Unearned revenue represents payments received advance our service obligations. continue structure our agreements align the timing our cash receipts with the service provided, expect that, over time, balances unearned revenue may continue decline. believe this trend unearned revenue not significant relative the trend our cash flows operating results. See \x93Net Sales and Gross Profit\x94 above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation , \x93Conditions for Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures,\x94 and other provisions the Securities Exchange Act (\x93 Act\x94) define and prescribe the conditions for use certain non-GAAP financial information. believe that certain our financial measures which meet the definition non-GAAP financial measure are important supplemental information investors. provide: \x93consolidated segment operating income (loss),\x94 \x93pro forma net income (loss),\x94 \x93pro forma net earnings (loss) per share,\x94 and \x93free cash flow.\x94 use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes, when publicly providing guidance possible future results, and means evaluate period- -period comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are used addition and conjunction with results presented accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures should not relied upon the exclusion GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect additional way viewing aspects our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide more complete understanding factors and trends affecting our business. Management strongly encourages investors review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports their entirety and not rely any single financial measure. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, may not possible compare these financial measures with other companies\x92 non-GAAP financial measures having the same similar names. For example, certain companies disclose financial measure earnings before certain charges such interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, commonly referred EBITDA. considered the use EBITDA supplemental performance measure GAAP, but believe consolidated segment operating income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) are superior for our Company certain periodic costs associated with our invested capital, such fixed asset depreciation expense and amortization software development costs, and certain costs associated with our capital structure, such interest expense, are relevant and important factors affecting our management decisions. For information about our financial results reported accordance with GAAP, see Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\x94 For quantitative reconciliation our non-GAAP financial measures the most comparable GAAP financial measures, see \x93Reconciliation Tables\x94 below. Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) measure operating results our segments using internal performance measure direct segment operating expenses that excludes: \x95 Stock-based compensation; \x95 Amortization other intangibles; and \x95 Restructuring-related and other. These operating expense line items are not allocated segment results, and all other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated segment results. The sum our individual segment results consolidated segment operating income (loss), which reconcile GAAP operating income (loss). Pursuant SEC staff interpretations Regulation , when presented our financial statement footnotes, consolidated segment operating income GAAP financial measure; however, since also present this financial measure outside the context our financial statement footnotes, have included this financial measure our discussion non-GAAP financial measures. use consolidated segment operating income (loss), and ratios based , manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our management evaluates consolidated segment income (loss) because excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control that believe are not characteristic our underlying business operations for the period which they are recorded, both. Items Excluded From Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) Stock-Based Compensation exclude stock-based compensation for the following reasons: \x95 Stock-based compensation expense excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance, although consider the dilutive impact our investors when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly; \x95 Stock-based compensation charges gains are non-cash; and \x95 The measurement stock-based compensation determined under variety methods depending the underlying award. These methods include: ( ) fixed accounting stock options granted market prices, resulting compensation expense, ( ) variable accounting certain stock options and restricted stock units, resulting unpredictable charges gains beyond our control, and ( ) fixed accounting for certain restricted stock units, resulting the estimated fair value the award recognized over the service period. record the employer portion payroll tax expense, cash expense, resulting from exercises stock-based awards \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 our consolidated statements operations and not include such expenses \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Amortization Other Intangibles exclude \x93Amortization other intangibles\x94 for the following reasons: \x95 Amortization other intangibles excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement financial performance; \x95 Amortization other intangibles non-cash charge current operations; and \x95 Amortization other intangibles has diminished, currently immaterial, and scheduled fully amortize the end . Restructuring-Related and Other exclude restructuring-related and other expenses, which are cash and non-cash amounts, for the following reasons: \x95 have implemented only one restructuring event our history, which announced January , and accordingly believe internally that this line item not important understanding our quarterly trends other line items; \x95 Since not regularly have restructuring-related charges, the exclusion such charges from prior periods provides better comparability our results operations viewed management; and \x95 Our restructuring-related and other charges have diminished, and except for periodic adjustments our estimates that may required from time time, not currently expect record additional restructuring-related charges the foreseeable future. Impairment Goodwill , the future, incur impairment losses our goodwill, such charges would excluded from consolidated segment operating income (loss) since they would non-cash, and not the immediate control management. have elected perform our annual analysis during the fourth calendar quarter each year. indicators impairment were identified during the year ended December , . Limitations Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss) Consolidated segment operating income (loss) has certain limitations. First, because excludes \x93Stock-based compensation,\x94 the financial measure does not include all expenses primarily related our workforce. compensate for this limitation providing supplemental information about stock-based compensation the face our consolidated statements operations and the footnotes our financial statements. also provide supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards, including their dilutive effect shareholders, the footnotes our financial statements. See Item Part \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 for presentation our stock-based compensation expense calculated consistent basis for all awards using the fair value method prescribed under SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , well total outstanding stock-based awards and related activity. Second, consolidated segment operating income (loss) excludes \x93Restructuring-related and other.\x94 For companies that periodically undergo restructuring events, excluding such costs from performance measures could provide incomplete summary ongoing costs that would affect future cash flows. However, compensate for this limitation disclosing cash flow measures, including operating cash flow, that incorporate all ongoing cash obligations associated with our January restructuring event and providing disclosure future estimated cash flows and remaining commitments associated with this event. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Restructuring-Related and Other.\x94 There can assurance that will not undertake another restructuring event the future that would affect future cash flows. have restructuring event the future, will -evaluate our decision exclude such charges from our consolidated segment operating income (loss) based those future facts and circumstances that time. Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) Pro forma net income (loss), including the related pro forma net earnings (loss) per share, which reconcile net income (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share, excludes, addition the line items described above excluded from consolidated segment operating income (loss), the following line items our consolidated statements operations: \x95 Remeasurement % PEACS and other; \x95 Equity losses equity-method investees, net; and \x95 Cumulative effect change accounting principle. use pro forma net income (loss), and ratios based , manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our decision use this financial measure due the fact that pro forma net income (loss) excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control are not characteristic our underlying business operations for the period which they are recorded, both. Items Excluded From Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) See \x93Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x97Items Excluded from Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x94 for explanation \x93Stock-based compensation,\x94 \x93Amortization other intangibles,\x94 \x93Restructuring-related and other,\x94 and \x93Impairment goodwill.\x94 Remeasurement % PEACS and Other The majority \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 consists gains charges due our quarterly remeasurement the principal our % PEACS from Euros . Dollars. exclude the effect these periodic remeasurements from our pro forma net income (loss) because the ultimate cash effect resulting from changes exchange rates inherently uncertain. These gains charges would only affect near-term cash flows redeem , certain cases, restructure, our % PEACS the next several years, rather than over longer term maturity . Because these charges and gains vary based exchange rates between the . Dollar and Euro, these amounts are beyond our immediate control and are difficult predict for future periods. Additionally, exclude gains charges associated with remeasurements foreign-currency denominated intercompany balances. exclude these amounts because they are beyond our immediate control and are difficult predict for future periods. This line item also includes $ million losses associated with the redemption our % Senior Discount Notes and portion our % Convertible Subordinated Notes and $ million losses associated with the termination our Euro Currency Swap. Equity Losses Equity-Method Investees, Net exclude equity losses equity-method investees, net, because generates potential non-cash gains losses, which are based the financial results other companies that not manage control and are difficult predict. addition, believe these non-cash gains and losses are not indicative our financial operating performance. Finally, recent quarters, these amounts represented insignificant charges and, absent future investments, expect this trend continue. Cumulative Effect Change Accounting Principle exclude cumulative effect change accounting principle because generates non-cash charges, which believe are not indicative our financial operating performance. Limitations Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) Pro forma net income (loss) has the same limitations consolidated segment operating income. See \x93Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x97Limitations Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)\x94 above. addition, when the % PEACS are retired, whether early redemption restructuring, maturity , the foreign currency effect changes the exchange ratio between the . Dollar and the Euro will result cash effect. compensate for this limitation disclosing the effect currency movements our % PEACS our consolidated statements operations and presenting the fair value our % PEACS the notes our financial statements. See Item Part , \x93Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x97Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, which reconcile \x93Net cash provided (used ) operating activities,\x94 cash flow from operations reduced \x93Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development.\x94 use free cash flow, and ratios based , conduct and evaluate our business because, although similar cash flow from operations, believe more conservative measure cash flows since purchases fixed assets are necessary component ongoing operations. limited circumstances where proceeds from sales fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since not anticipate being net seller fixed assets, expect free cash flow less than operating cash flows. Limitations Free Cash Flow Free cash flow has limitations due the fact that does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made capital lease obligations. Therefore, believe important view free cash flow complement our entire consolidated statements cash flows. Full year and corresponding quarterly consolidated segment operating income, and certain cash flow information for , and , were follows ( thousands): Year Ended December , Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Pro forma net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Consolidated segment operating income percentage net sales % % % % % Pro forma basic earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Pro forma diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Weighted average shares used computation pro forma basic earnings per share , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation pro forma diluted earnings per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities , , ( , ) , ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) , Year Ended December , Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Pro forma net income (loss) $ , $ , $ $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Consolidated segment operating income percentage net sales % % % % % Pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share $ $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average used computation pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided financing activities , , , , , Year Ended December , Full Year Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Consolidated segment operating income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Pro forma net income (loss) $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Consolidated segment operating income (loss) percentage net sales ( )% % ( )% ( )% ( )% Pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Weighted average shares used computation pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) , , Net cash provided (used ) financing activities , ( , ) , , , The following reconciliation our non-GAAP measures the most comparable GAAP measures for , , and . Quarterly reconciliations are consistent with full-year presentation. Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma ( thousands) ( thousands) ( thousands) Net sales $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , $ , , $ \x97 $ , , Cost sales , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , , , \x97 , , Gross profit , , \x97 , , , \x97 , , \x97 , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Marketing , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Technology and content , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , General and administrative , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Stock-based compensation , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Restructuring-related and other ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 Total operating expenses , ( , ) , , ( , ) , , , ( , ) , Income (loss) from operations , , , ( ) , , , ( ) ( , ) , ( , )( ) Interest income , \x97 , , \x97 , , \x97 , Interest expense ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Other income (expense), net , \x97 , , \x97 , ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Remeasurement % PEACS and other ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) ( , ) , ( , ) Income (loss) before equity losses equity-method investees , , , ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, Net ( ) \x97 ( , ) , \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Income (loss) before change accounting principle , , , ( , ) , , ( , ) , ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( , ) , \x97 Net income (loss) $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , ) Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Year Ended December , Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma Reported( ) Adjustments Pro Forma ( thousands) ( thousands) ( thousands) Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) \x97 ( ) \x97 $ $ $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , Net cash provided (used ) operating activities $ , $ , $ ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and Website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Free cash flow $ , $ , $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities $ ( , ) $ , $ , ( ) accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. ( ) Consolidated segment operating income. Guidance First quarter net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion, grow between % and %. For the full year , net sales are expected between $ billion and $ billion. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 Assuming among other things, and solely for purposes this estimate, that not record any revisions our restructuring-related estimates and that the closing price our common stock March , and December , identical the closing price $ December , , operating income for the first quarter expected between $ million and $ million, and, for the full year , between $ million and $ million. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93 Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 addition, our GAAP operating projections are based assumption about our future stock price performance, which required estimate stock-based compensation and difficult accurately predict. First quarter consolidated segment operating income expected between $ million and $ million. For the full year , consolidated segment operating income expected between $ million and $ million. However, any such projections are subject substantial uncertainty. See Item Part , \x93Business\x97Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results.\x94 ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk are exposed market risk for the effect interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes the market values our investments. Information relating quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk set forth below and Item Part , \x93Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations\x97Liquidity and Capital Resources.\x94 Interest Rate Risk Our exposure market risk for changes interest rates relates primarily our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented fair value our balance sheets. generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due rise interest rates, and may suffer losses principal forced sell securities that have declined market value due changes interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts were follows ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ $ , $ , The following table provides information about our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities, including principal cash flows expected maturity and the related weighted average interest rates December , . Amounts are follows ( thousands, except percentages): Thereafter Total Estimated Fair Value December , Commercial paper and short-term obligations $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , $ , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Certificates deposit , \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 % Corporate notes and bonds , , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 \x97 % Asset-backed and agency securities , , , \x97 \x97 , , , Weighted average interest rate % % % \x97 \x97 % % Treasury notes and bonds , , , , \x97 \x97 , , Weighted average interest rate % % % % \x97 \x97 % Cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , $ , December , , have long-term debt $ billion primarily associated with our % PEACS and % Convertible Subordinated Notes, which are due and . Our payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised periodic interest payments and principal payments maturity. The market value our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements interest rates, increasing periods declining rates interest and declining periods increasing rates interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and , and the fair value the % Convertible Subordinated Notes was $ billion (principal balance $ billion) and $ million (principal balance $ billion) December , and . Foreign Exchange Risk During , net sales from our International segment (consisting www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon ) accounted for % our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, well those relating www amazon , are denominated the functional currencies the corresponding websites, and include Euros, British Pounds, Yen, and Canadian Dollars. The functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support these websites the same the corresponding local currency. The results operations and certain our intercompany balances associated with our internationally-focused websites are exposed foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and may record significant transaction gains losses the remeasurement intercompany balances. result fluctuations foreign exchange rates during , International segment revenues improved $ million and our operating results improved $ million comparison with the prior year. have foreign exchange risk related foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (\x93foreign funds\x94). Based the balance foreign funds December , $ million, assumed %, %, and % negative currency movement would result fair value declines $ million, $ million, and $ million. All investments are classified \x93available for sale,\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities. have foreign exchange risk related our % PEACS, which have outstanding principal balance million Euros ($ million, based the exchange rate December , ). Based the outstanding % PEACS\x92 principal balance, assumed %, %, and % weakening the . Dollar relation the Euro would result losses approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million, recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other.\x94 are not hedged interest payments under our % PEACS. Assuming the . Dollar weakens against the Euro %, %, and % , would incur $ million, $ million, and $ million additional interest expense due solely fluctuations foreign exchange. Investment Risk December , , our recorded basis equity securities was $ million, including $ million classified \x93Marketable securities\x94 and $ million classified \x93Other equity investments.\x94 regularly review the carrying value our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines the fair value such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During , recorded impairment losses totaling $ million, compared $ million during the year ended December , , write-down several our equity securities fair value. The fair values our investments are subject significant fluctuations due volatility the stock market and changes general economic conditions. Based the fair value the publicly-traded equity securities held December , $ million (recorded basis $ million), assumed %, %, and % adverse change market prices these securities would result corresponding decline total fair value approximately $ million, $ million and $ million. ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Board Directors and Stockholders Amazon com, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the related consolidated statements operations, stockholders\x92 deficit and cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed Item ( )( ). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedule based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with auditing standards generally accepted the United States. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Amazon com, Inc. December , and , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended December , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, presents fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the full provisions Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Business Combinations, and . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective January , . The Company also adopted Statement Financial Accounting Standards . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, effective January , . addition, discussed Note the consolidated financial statements, effective January , , the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method the first- first-out method accounting. / / RNST & OUNG LLP Seattle, Washington January , , except for the last two paragraphs Note and Note , which the date January , AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( thousands) Years Ended December , CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING PERIOD $ , $ , $ , OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) Adjustments reconcile net income (loss) net cash provided (used ) operating activities: Depreciation fixed assets, including website development costs, and other amortization , , , Stock-based compensation , , , Equity losses equity-method investees, net , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Non-cash restructuring-related and other \x97 , , Gain sale marketable securities, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Remeasurement % PEACS and other (See Note ) , , , Non-cash interest expense and other , , , Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) , Changes operating assets and liabilities: Inventories ( , ) ( , ) , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets ( , ) , Accounts payable , , ( , ) Accrued expenses and other current liabilities ( , ) , , Additions unearned revenue , , , Amortization previously unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Interest payable , , ( ) Net cash provided (used ) operating activities , , ( , ) INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Sales and maturities marketable securities and other investments , , , Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Purchases fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from sale subsidiary and other , \x97 \x97 Investments equity-method investees and other investments \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) investing activities , ( , ) ( , ) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds from exercise stock options and other , , , Proceeds from issuance common stock, net issuance costs \x97 \x97 , Proceeds from long-term debt and other \x97 \x97 , Repayment long-term debt, capital lease obligations, and other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net cash provided (used ) financing activities ( , ) , , Foreign-currency effect cash and cash equivalents , , ( , ) Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents , , ( , ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END PERIOD $ , , $ , $ , SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Fixed assets acquired under capital leases and other financing arrangements $ , $ , $ , Stock issued connection with minority investment \x97 \x97 , Cash paid for interest , , , Cash paid for income taxes , , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( thousands, except per share data) Years Ended December , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Cost sales , , , , , , Gross profit , , , , Operating expenses: Fulfillment , , , Marketing , , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , , Stock-based compensation ( ) , , , Amortization goodwill and other intangibles , , , Restructuring-related and other , , Total operating expenses , , , , Income (loss) from operations , , ( , ) Interest income , , , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net , , ( , ) Remeasurement % PEACS and other (See Note ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Income (loss) before equity losses equity-method investees , ( , ) ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Weighted average shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , Diluted , , , ( ) Components stock-based compensation: Fulfillment $ , $ , $ Marketing , , Technology and content , , , General and administrative , , $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( thousands, except per share data) December , December , Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , Marketable securities , , Inventories , , Accounts receivable, net and other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Fixed assets, net , , Goodwill, net , , Other intangibles, net , Other equity investments , , Other assets , , Total assets $ , , $ , , \x92 Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses and other current liabilities , , Unearned revenue , , Interest payable , , Current portion long-term debt and other , , Total current liabilities , , , , Long-term debt and other , , , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 deficit: Preferred stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , Issued and outstanding shares\x97none \x97 \x97 Common stock, $ par value: Authorized shares\x97 , , Issued and outstanding shares\x97 , and , shares , , Additional paid- capital , , , , Deferred stock-based compensation ( , ) ( , ) Accumulated other comprehensive income , , Accumulated deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total stockholders\x92 deficit ( , , ) ( , , ) Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 deficit $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT ( thousands) Common Stock Additional Paid- Capital Deferred Stock-Based Compensation Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders\x92 Equity (Deficit) Shares Amount Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , , ) $ ( , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation losses, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized losses Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Issuance common stock, net issuance costs , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Repayments note receivable for common stock \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation and other, net adjustments , , ( , ) \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) ( , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) Net loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized gains Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive loss \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Exercise common stock options, net , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Deferred stock-based compensation, net adjustments ( ) \x97 , ( , ) \x97 \x97 ( , ) Income tax benefit stock awards \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , , , , ( , ) , ( , , ) ( , , ) Net income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , , Foreign currency translation gains, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Change unrealized gain (loss) available-for-sale securities, net \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Net unrealized gains Euro-based currency swap \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 , Comprehensive income \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Exercise common stock options, net and vesting restricted stock , , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Notes converted \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 Income tax benefit stock awards \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Amortization deferred stock-based compensation \x97 \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 , Issuance common stock \x96 employee benefit plan \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 restricted stock units \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Stock compensation \x96 variable accounting \x97 \x97 , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Balance December , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ , $ ( , , ) $ , , See accompanying notes consolidated financial statements. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note \x97DESCRIPTION BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description Business Amazon com, Inc., Fortune company, commenced operations the World Wide Web July . seek offer Earth\x92 Biggest Selection and Earth\x92 most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they may want buy online. endeavor offer our customers the lowest possible prices. Through our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs, enable businesses and individuals sell virtually anything Amazon com\x92 millions customers operate six global websites: www amazon com, www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. The North America segment includes the operating results www amazon com and www amazon . The International segment includes the operating results www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . Principles Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use Estimates The preparation financial statements conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures contingent assets and liabilities the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited , inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities, incentive discount offers, valuation investments, taxes, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Cash and Cash Equivalents classify all highly liquid instruments with original maturity three months less the time purchase cash equivalents. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimate losses receivables based known troubled accounts, any, and historical experience losses incurred. Inventories Inventories, consisting products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued the lower cost market value. This valuation requires make judgments, based currently-available information, about the likely method disposition, such through sales individual customers, returns product vendors, liquidations, and expected recoverable values each disposition category. Based this evaluation, record valuation allowance adjust the carrying amount our inventories lower cost market value. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Asset Retirement Obligations accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, establish assets and liabilities for the present value estimated future costs return certain our leased facilities their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted the future value the estimated restoration costs. Such amounts are not significant. Accounting Changes Inventories Effective January , , prospectively changed our inventory costing method from the specific identification method the FIFO method accounting. This change resulted cumulative increase inventory $ million, with corresponding amount recorded \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 the consolidated statements operations. received letter preferability for this change inventory costing from our independent auditors. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Effective January , , adopted SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , which requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment least annually. evaluated our intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. accordance with Accounting Principles Board (\x93APB\x94) Opinion . , Accounting Changes , the effect these accounting changes reflected prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure, the change had been retroactively applied, follows ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Net income (loss): Reported net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Goodwill amortization ( ) \x97 \x97 , Inventory costing change \x97 ( ) Adjusted net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share: Reported basic earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Goodwill amortization ( ) \x97 \x97 Inventory costing change \x97 ( ) \x97 Adjusted basic earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) Includes $ million, $ per share, for , related amortization other intangibles that was classified goodwill effective January , . Fixed Assets Fixed assets are stated cost less accumulated depreciation, which includes the amortization assets recorded under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased under capital leases, are depreciated straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives the assets (generally two ten years). AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Included fixed assets the cost internal-use software and website development, including software used upgrade and enhance our websites. expense all costs related the development internal-use software other than those incurred during the application development stage. Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life the software, generally two years. Goodwill Net goodwill declined $ million during relating the disposition subsidiary that was previously included our North America segment. performed impairment analysis and , required SFAS . , and concluded that the carrying amount goodwill was appropriate. During and , did not acquire any additional goodwill. Other Intangibles Other intangibles consist the following ( thousands): December , December , Other Intangibles, Gross Accumulated Amortization Other Intangibles, Net ( ) Other Intangibles, Gross Accumulated Amortization Other Intangibles, Net Contract-based ( ) $ , $ ( , ) $ \x97 $ , $ ( , ) $ , Marketing-related , ( , ) , ( , ) Technology-based , ( , ) , ( , ) Customer-related , ( , ) , ( , ) Other intangibles $ , $ ( , ) $ $ , $ ( , ) $ , ( ) Net intangibles $ , were disposed during connection with the sale subsidiary. ( ) The net carrying amount intangible assets December , scheduled fully amortized the end . Investments The initial carrying cost our investments the price paid acquisition. Investments are accounted for using the equity method accounting the investment gives the ability exercise significant influence, but not control, over investee. record our investments equity-method investees the consolidated balance sheets \x93Other equity investments\x94 and our share the investees\x92 earnings losses \x93Equity losses equity-method investees, net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. All other equity investments, which consist investments for which not have the ability exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Under the cost method accounting, investments private companies are carried cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines fair value, distributions earnings, and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, classify our equity investments available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments their fair values with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) generally invest our excess cash -rated higher short- intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Such investments are included \x93Marketable securities\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported fair value with unrealized gains and losses included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).\x94 The weighted average method used determine the cost Euro-denominated securities sold and the specific identification method used determine the cost all other securities. periodically evaluate whether declines fair values our investments are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists review qualitative and quantitative factors, including quoted market prices, available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent financing rounds; other conditions that bear the value our investments. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate that the carrying amount the assets might not recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate impairment assessment include significant decline the observable market value asset, significant change the extent manner which asset used, any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount asset group assets not recoverable. For long-lived assets used operations, impairment losses are only recorded the asset\x92 carrying amount not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted cash flows. measure the impairment loss based the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed plan sell the asset, the asset available for sale its immediate condition, and the sale probable within one year the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported the lower cost fair value less costs sell. Other Assets Other assets consist primarily professional fees paid connection with the issuance our long-term debt. These fees are amortized ratably into interest expense over the life the underlying debt. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue recorded when payments are received advance our service obligations and amortized ratably over the service period. Income Taxes recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based differences between the financial reporting basis and tax basis assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected effect when the differences are expected recovered. provide valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets the extent such assets are not expected realized. Revenue Recognition recognize revenue from product sales services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred services have been rendered, the selling price fixed determinable, and collectibility reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units accounting the deliverables the arrangement meet the following criteria: ( ) the delivered item has value the customer standalone basis; ( ) there objective and reliable evidence the fair value undelivered items; and ( ) delivery any undelivered item probable. evaluate the criteria outlined Emerging Issues Task Force (\x93EITF\x94) Issue . - , Reporting Revenue Gross Principal Versus Net Agent , determining whether appropriate record the gross amount product sales and related costs the net amount earned commissions. Generally, when are the primary obligor transaction, are subject inventory risk, have latitude establishing prices and selecting suppliers, have several but not all these indicators, revenue recorded gross. are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using fixed percentage, fixed-payment schedule, combination the two, generally record the net amounts commissions earned. Product sales, net promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes customers. Retail items sold customers are made pursuant sales contract that provides for transfer both title and risk loss upon our delivery the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue our best estimate expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. periodically provide incentive offers our customers encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such offers for future discounts subject minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction the purchase price the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted our customers, are treated reduction purchase price based estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented net amount \x93Net sales.\x94 Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and amounts earned through our Merchant com program are recognized when the item sold the third-party seller and our collectibility reasonably assured. record allowance for estimated refunds such commissions using historical experience Outbound shipping charges customers are included net sales and amounted $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Cost Sales Cost sales consists the purchase price consumer products sold , inbound and outbound shipping charges , packaging supplies, and certain costs associated with our service revenues. instances where incur fulfillment costs ship products behalf third-party sellers provide customer service their behalf, such costs are classified \x93Cost sales\x94 rather than \x93Fulfillment\x94 the consolidated statements operations. All credit card fees and bad debt costs, including those associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, are classified \x93Fulfillment\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Outbound shipping charges and the cost tangible supplies used package products for shipment customers totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and responding inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid third-parties that assist fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred behalf other businesses, such Toysrus com, Inc. and Target Corporation, are classified cost sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing expenses consist advertising; -line marketing, including amounts paid under our Syndicated Stores and Associates programs; public relations expenditures; and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged marketing and selling activities. the extent -operative marketing reimbursements decline future periods, may incur additional expenses continue certain promotions elect reduce discontinue them. Advertising and other promotional costs, which are expensed incurred, are included marketing expense and were $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and . Prepaid advertising costs were not significant December , and . Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations personnel; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content costs are expensed incurred, except for certain costs relating the development internal-use software and website development, including upgrades and enhancements our websites, which are capitalized and depreciated over two years. Fixed assets associated with capitalized internal-use software, content, and website development, net accumulated depreciation, were $ million and $ million December , and . Costs capitalized during the application development stage for internal-use software, offset corresponding amortization, were net deferral $ million , net expense $ million , and net deferral $ million . Stock-Based Compensation generally have three categories stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, and stock options. account for stock-based awards under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement principles APB Opinion . , Accounting for Stock Issued Employees , and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method accounting results compensation expense the extent option exercise prices are set below market prices the date grant. Also, the extent stock awards have been subject exchange offer, other modifications, performance criteria, such awards are subject variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment results expense contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated based quoted prices our common stock and vesting schedules underlying awards. the extent stock options are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Since October, , grant restricted stock units our primary form stock-based compensation; however, certain our foreign jurisdictions, continue grant stock options. Stock options granted after December , are subject variable accounting treatment. Restricted stock units and restricted stock are generally measured fair value the date grant based the number shares granted and the quoted price our common stock. Such value recognized expense over the corresponding service period using the accelerated method under FASB Interpretation (\x93FIN\x94) . , Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option Award Plans . the extent restricted stock restricted stock units are forfeited prior vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense reversed offset \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 record the employer portion payroll tax expense resulting from exercises stock options and vesting restricted stock \x93Fulfillment,\x94 \x93Marketing,\x94 \x93Technology and content,\x94 and \x93General and administrative\x94 our consolidated statements operations and not include such expenses \x93Stock-based compensation.\x94 Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under our ( ) program. Stock-based compensation consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Stock awards\x97variable accounting $ , $ , $ Fixed accounting ( ): Restricted stock units , , \x97 Restricted stock ( ) , , , Total stock-based compensation $ , $ , $ , ( ) Fair value awards determined grant date and recognized expense over the service period. ( ) Includes expense associated with matching contributions under our ( ) savings plan. granted stock awards representing million, million, and million shares common stock during , , and . These awards generally vest over service periods between three and six years. The following table summarizes relevant information the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , amended SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation\x97Transition and Disclosure, had been applied all stock-based awards ( thousands, except per share data): Years Ended December , Net income (loss)\x97 reported $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Add: Stock-based compensation, reported , , , Deduct: Total stock-based compensation determined under fair value based method for all awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Net income (loss)\x97SFAS . adjusted $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97 reported $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share\x97SFAS . adjusted $ $ ( ) $ ( ) AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) The fair value for each stock option granted was estimated the date grant using Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming dividends and the following assumptions: Years Ended December , Average risk-free interest rate % % % Average expected life ( years) Volatility % % % The per share weighted average fair value stock awards, including restricted stock units, granted , , and , was $ , $ , and $ . Outstanding stock awards were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Stock options ( )( ) , , , Restricted stock units ( ) , , Outstanding stock awards, excluded from common stock outstanding , , , Restricted stock ( ) , , Total outstanding stock awards , , , ( ) The weighted average exercise price was $ , $ , and $ December , , , and . ( ) Includes million, million, and million options December , , , and subject variable accounting treatment. ( ) Includes , and , restricted stock units subject variable accounting treatment December , and . ( ) Included issued and outstanding common stock. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition lease obligations. Key variables determining such estimates include anticipated timing sublease rentals, estimates sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. Additionally, may determine that certain the office space previously vacated part our restructuring, which have been unable sublease due poor real estate market conditions, may necessary for our future expansion needs. periodically evaluate and, necessary, adjust our estimates based currently-available information. elect utilize this office space, accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit Disposal Activities , will adjust our restructuring-related liability and classify future payments \x93General and administrative\x94 the consolidated statements operations. Foreign Currency have the following internationally-focused websites: www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon . Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, well most the related expenses incurred from those operations, are denominated the AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) functional currencies the resident countries. Additionally, the functional currency our subsidiaries that either operate support www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , www amazon and www amazon the same the local currency the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada. Assets and liabilities these subsidiaries are translated into . Dollars period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),\x94 separate component stockholders\x92 deficit and the \x93Effect exchange-rate changes cash and cash equivalents,\x94 the consolidated statements cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated currency other than the functional currency the entity involved are included \x93Other income (expense), net\x94 the consolidated statements operations. See \x93Note \x97Other Income (Expense), Net.\x94 provision SFAS . , Foreign Currency Translation , requires that gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions considered long-term investments, where settlement not planned anticipated the foreseeable future, excluded the determination net income. Our international operations are financed, part, the . parent company. Currency adjustments for these intercompany balances were historically recorded equity translation adjustments and not included the determination net income because intended permanently invest such amounts. During the fourth quarter , made the decision that these amounts would repaid among the entities and, accordingly, upon consolidation any exchange gain loss arising from remeasurement intercompany balances required recorded the determination net income. The effect for the fourth quarter and the year ended December , was increase net income $ million. The effect this treatment was very significant our net income for the year and for the quarter. Had not changed our intent the settlement these intercompany balances, would have had net loss for and our net income for the fourth quarter would have been reduced almost %. See \x93Note \x96 Remeasurement % PEACS and Other\x94 for further discussion. Derivative Financial Instruments accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, record derivative instruments the consolidated balance sheets fair value. Changes the fair value derivatives are recorded each period current results operations other comprehensive income (loss) depending whether derivative designated part hedge transaction and, , the type hedge transaction. For derivative designated fair value hedge, the gain loss the derivative the period change and the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the hedged risk are recognized results operations. For derivative designated cash flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified into results operations when the hedged exposure affects results operations. The ineffective portion the gain loss cash flow hedge recognized currently results operations. For derivative not designated hedging instrument, the gain loss recognized currently results operations. are exposed the risk fluctuations foreign exchange rates between the . Dollar and the Euro associated with our % PEACS (See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other\x94). Currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement the % PEACS\x92 principal from Euros . Dollars each period are recorded \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other.\x94 During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) hold warrants purchase equity securities other companies. Warrants that can exercised and settled delivery net shares such that pay cash upon exercise are derivative financial instruments. Our net share warrants are not designated hedging instruments; accordingly, gains losses resulting from changes fair value are recognized the consolidated statements operations, \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other,\x94 the period change. determine the fair value our warrants through option-pricing models using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for our private-company warrants. The adoption SFAS . January , resulted cumulative transition losses $ million included the results operations and stockholders\x92 deficit adjustment $ million. Transition losses included \x93Cumulative effect change accounting principle\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses reclassified from \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 warrants previously reported fair value and classified available-for-sale, and approximately $ million losses warrants previously reported cost. warrant investments are designated hedging instruments. Transition losses \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)\x94 are attributable approximately $ million losses the swap agreement designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS offset the approximately $ million losses reclassified results operations derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments. Earnings (Loss) Per Share accordance with SFAS . , Earnings Per Share , the weighted average shares used calculate basic earnings (loss) per share excludes the weighted average restricted shares outstanding because they are subject repurchase forfeiture. The effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive for periods that have net loss and, accordingly, excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share. The dilutive effect stock awards and restricted stock included the calculation weighted average shares, using the treasury stock method, for periods that have net income. The \x93 converted\x94 number shares associated with each our convertible debt instruments are excluded from diluted shares their effect anti-dilutive. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Recent Accounting Pronouncements January , the FASB issued FIN . , Consolidation Variable Interest Entities , effective for the period ending December , . This Interpretation requires the consolidation Variable Interest Entities which company holds qualifying variable interest. The provisions this Interpretation not have significant effect our financial position operating results. May , the FASB issued SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics Both Liabilities and Equity . SFAS . establishes standards for how company classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics both liabilities and equity. SFAS . effective for financial instruments entered into modified after May , , and otherwise effective the beginning the first interim period beginning after September , . The provisions this Standard not have significant effect our financial position operating results. November , the EITF reached consensus issue - , Application EITF - Resellers Sales Incentives Offered Consumers Manufacturers, addressing how reseller account for the redemption manufacturer\x92 coupon consumer the reseller\x92 location. The final consensus eliminates AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) the option that permitted resellers report the value the consideration received reduction costs goods sold, but rather mandates that recorded revenue. EITF - applicable new arrangements, including modifications existing arrangements, entered into fiscal periods beginning after November , . The provisions this consensus not have significant effect our financial position operating results. November , the EITF reached consensus issue - , The Meaning Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application Certain Investments . EITF - establishes additional disclosure requirements for each category FAS investments loss position. Effective for years ending after December , , companies must disclose the aggregate amount unrealized losses, and the aggregate related fair value their investments with unrealized losses. Those investments are required segregated those loss position for less than twelve months and those loss position for greater than twelve months. Additionally, certain qualitative disclosures should made clarify circumstance whereby investment\x92 fair value that below cost not considered other-than-temporary. The provisions this consensus not have significant effect our financial position operating results, and the disclosure requirements are included \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities.\x94 Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Note \x97CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, major security type, our cash and marketable securities ( thousands): December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses ( ) Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , , \x97 , Cash and cash equivalents , , , \x97 , , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Commercial paper and short-term obligations \x97 Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Asset-backed and agency securities , ( ) , . Treasury notes and bonds , ( ) , Equity securities , , \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable Securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , ( ) The fair value investments with loss positions $ million. evaluated the nature these investments, which are primarily . Treasury Notes, the duration the impairments (all less than twelve months), and the amount the impairments relative the underlying portfolio and conclude that such amounts were not \x93other-than-temporary\x94 defined SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities . ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) December , Cost Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Cash $ , $ \x97 $ \x97 $ , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , , \x97 , Total cash and cash equivalents , , \x97 , Certificates deposit , , \x97 , Commercial paper and short-term obligations , \x97 \x97 , Corporate notes and bonds , \x97 , Asset-backed and agency securities , , \x97 , . Treasury notes and bonds , , ( ) , Equity securities , \x97 \x97 , Marketable securities , , ( ) , Total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable Securities ( ) $ , , $ , $ ( ) $ , , ( ) Includes investments foreign currencies $ million, principally Euros, British Pounds, and Yen. The following table summarizes contractual maturities our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities December , ( thousands): Amortized Cost Estimated Fair Value Due within one year $ , $ , Due after one year through three years , , Asset-backed and agency securities with various maturities , , $ , $ , Gross gains $ million, $ million, and $ million and gross losses $ million, $ million and $ million were realized sales available-for-sale marketable securities for the years ended December , , , and . are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. See \x93Note \x97Commitments and Contingencies.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, cost, consist the following ( thousands): December , Gross Fixed Assets ( ): Fulfillment and customer service $ , $ , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Gross fixed assets , , Accumulated Depreciation ( ): Fulfillment and customer service , , Technology infrastructure , , Internal-use software, content, and website development , , Other corporate assets , , Total accumulated depreciation , , Total fixed assets, net $ , $ , ( ) Excludes the cost and accumulated depreciation fully-depreciated assets. Depreciation expense fixed assets was $ million, $ million, and $ million, which includes amortization fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations $ million for and , and $ million for . Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $ million and $ million for the years ended December , and . Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $ million and $ million for the years ended December , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER EQUITY INVESTMENTS Activity our equity-method and cost-method investments for the years ended December , and follows ( thousands): Equity- Method Cost-Method Total Balance, December , $ , $ , $ , Equity-method losses, net ( , ) \x97 ( , ) Sales investments fair value ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Realized gains sales investments, net , , , Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Unrealized losses available-for-sale investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Losses for change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 ( ) ( ) Investment reclassifications, net, fair value ( ) \x97 Balance, December , ( )( ) , , Equity-method losses, net ( ) \x97 ( ) Sales investments fair value \x97 ( ) ( ) Losses resulting from other-than-temporary declines fair value \x97 ( , ) ( , ) Unrealized gains available-for-sale investments, net \x97 , , Change fair value warrant investments, net \x97 , , Balance, December , ( )( ) $ \x97 $ , $ , ( ) December , and , cost-method investments recorded \x93Other equity investments\x94 included $ million and $ million investments recorded fair value and $ million and $ million investments carried cost. Gross unrealized gains and losses were not significant December , and . ( ) December , and , the fair value our investments the common stock publicly held equity-method investees was $ million and $ million, primarily relating our investment drugstore com, inc. Currently, not hold over % interest any our investments. Note \x97UNEARNED REVENUE During and , activity unearned revenue was follows ( thousands): Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , , Cash received accounts receivable , Amortization revenue ( , ) Balance, December , $ , All amounts recorded accounts receivable, including amounts associated with unearned revenue, are legally due and contractually enforceable. December , accounts receivable, net associated with unearned revenue was $ million. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER Our long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized follows ( thousands): December , % Convertible Subordinated Notes due February $ , , $ , , % PEACS due February , , % Senior Discount Notes due May \x97 , Long-term restructuring liabilities , , Euro currency swap \x97 , Capital lease obligations , , Other long-term debt , , , , , , Less current portion capital lease obligations ( , ) ( , ) Less current portion other long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total long-term debt and other $ , , $ , , % PEACS February , , completed offering million Euros % PEACS due . The % PEACS are convertible, the holder\x92 option, into our common stock conversion price Euros per share. The . Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. Interest the % PEACS payable annually arrears February each year. The % PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future senior indebtedness. The % PEACS rank equally with our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % PEACS, whole part, paying the principal million Euros, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. premium payment required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % PEACS, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % PEACS price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants December , . During the second quarter , terminated our Euro Currency Swap that previously was designated cash flow hedge portion the % PEACS\x92 principal and interest. Although neither party made cash payments terminate the agreement, recorded non-cash loss $ million \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 representing the remaining basis our swap asset. December , , the remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency Swap, recorded \x93Accumulated other comprehensive income,\x94 was $ million. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities , this accumulated loss will amortized \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 over the life the % PEACS. net gains losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness were recognized our results operations during the year ended December , and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) redeem otherwise restructure our % PEACS prior maturity , any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the Euro Currency Swap will recorded charge \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other.\x94 Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value the % PEACS was $ million and $ million December , and . The fair value the swap obligation was $ million December , . % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , , completed offering $ billion % Convertible Subordinated Notes. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into our common stock the holders\x92 option conversion price $ per share. Interest the % Convertible Subordinated Notes payable semi-annually arrears February and August each year. The % Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated any existing and future Senior Indebtedness defined the indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes. have the right redeem the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, whole part, paying the principal plus redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. December , , the redemption premium was % the principal, and decreased % February , and will decrease basis points annually until maturity. Upon the occurrence \x93fundamental change\x94 prior the maturity the % Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right require redeem all any part such holder\x92 % Convertible Subordinated Notes price equal % the principal amount the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. defined the indenture, \x93fundamental change\x94 the occurrence certain types transactions which our stockholders not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the % Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for , including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims timely manner. were compliance with these covenants December , . November , , redeemed aggregate principal amount $ million our % Convertible Subordinated Notes. provided the underlying indenture, the redemption price $ million represented $ million ( %) premium over the face amount the redeemed % Convertible Subordinated Notes. recorded charge the fourth quarter , classified \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other,\x94 approximately $ million related the redemption, consisting the $ million premium and approximately $ million unamortized deferred issuance charges. Accrued and unpaid interest $ million, from August , through November , , was also paid redemption. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value our % Convertible Subordinated Notes December , and was $ billion (principal balance $ billion) and $ million (principal balance $ billion). % Senior Discount Notes During the second quarter , redeemed all our remaining % Senior Discount Notes for $ million, consisting principal repayment $ million and % premium $ million. Included our results for the year ended December , charge $ million \x93Remeasurement % PEACS and other\x94 representing the % premium and $ million remaining deferred issuance charges. Additionally, paid $ million holders our % Senior Discount Notes for interest accrued between May , and AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) May , . The interest payment $ million, was recorded \x93Interest expense\x94 the consolidated statement operations. Subsequent Events January , , announced that will redeem $ million principal amount our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , . The redemption price set % the principal amount maturity, plus accrued and unpaid interest from February through February , . After completion the redemption $ million principal, there will approximately $ million aggregate principal amount % Convertible Subordinated Notes outstanding. Additionally, January , , our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. Note \x97COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments currently lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for , , and was $ million, $ million, and $ million. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases support normal operations December , ( thousands): Thereafter Total Restructuring-related commitments: Operating leases, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 , Restructuring-related commitments , , , , , , , Other commitments: Debt principal and other ( )( ) , \x97 \x97 , , , , Debt interest ( )( ) , , , , , , , Capital leases , \x97 \x97 \x97 , Operating leases ( ) , , , , , , , Other commitments , , , , , , , , , Total commitments $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , $ , , ( ) The principal payment due and the annual interest payments due under our % PEACS fluctuate based the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio. December , , the Euro . Dollar exchange rate was . Due fluctuations the Euro . Dollar exchange ratio, our principal debt obligation under this instrument since issuance has increased $ million December , . cannot predict the performance the . Dollar relative the Euro. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) ( ) See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 ( ) Pursuant SFAS . , Accounting for Leases , lease agreements are categorized their inception either operating capital leases depending certain defined criteria. Although operating leases represent obligations for , pursuant SFAS . they are not reflected the balance sheet. December , , have remaining obligations under operating leases for equipment and real estate $ million. had applied our equipment-related operating leases the same convention used for capital leases, which, however, would not accordance with GAAP, would have recorded approximately $ million additional assets and obligations our balance sheet December , . Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. Long-term capital lease obligations are follows ( thousands): December , Gross capital lease obligations $ , Less imputed interest ( ) Present value net minimum lease payments , Less current portion ( , ) Total long-term capital lease obligations $ , Pledged Securities are required pledge portion our marketable securities collateral for standby letters credit that guarantee certain our contractual obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The amount required pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life our leases, and with fluctuations our market capitalization and credit-rating. The change the total amount collateral required pledged under these agreements was follows ( thousands): Standby Letters Credit ( ) Swap Agreement ( ) Real Estate Leases ( ) Total Balance December , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net change collateral pledged , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance December , $ , $ \x97 $ , $ , ( ) have standby letter- -credit facilities totaling $ million. The outstanding commitments under these facilities December , totaled $ million. ( ) Due the termination the Euro Currency Swap, collateral previously pledged under this arrangement longer subject restrictions. ( ) The required amount collateral pledged will increase $ million and additional $ million our market capitalization below $ billion and $ billion. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Legal Proceedings number purported class action complaints were filed holders our equity and debt securities against , our directors, and certain our senior officers during , the United States District Court for the Western District Washington, alleging violations the Securities Act (the \x93 Act\x94) and the Act. August , , plaintiffs the Act cases filed second consolidated amended complaint alleging that , together with certain our officers and directors, made false misleading statements during the period from October , through October , concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false misleading statements connection with our February offering the % PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing these complaints and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. October , , Gary Gerlinger, individually and behalf all other similarly situated consumers the United States who, during the period from August , the present, purchased books online from either Amazon com Borders com, instituted action against and Borders the United States District Court for the Northern District California. The complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant which affiliate Amazon com operates Borders com -branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble damages statutory damages where applicable, attorneys\x92 fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement all sums obtained allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. dispute the plaintiff\x92 allegations wrongdoing and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. Beginning March , were served with complaints filed several different states private litigant purportedly behalf the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that (along with other companies with which have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales personal property customers those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating were not required collect remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys\x92 fees, civil penalties $ , per violation, and treble punitive damages under the various state false claims acts. possible that have been will named similar cases other states well. not believe that are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure collect sales other taxes relating Internet sales and intend vigorously defend ourselves these matters. July , , Pinpoint, Inc. filed complaint for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Northern District Illinois against and several other companies with which have commercial agreements. The complaint alleges that our personalization technology infringes several patents obtained Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees against all defendants. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. January , , Soverain Software LLC filed complaint against for patent infringement the United States District Court for the Eastern District Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes several patents obtained Soverain purporting cover \x93Internet Server Access Control and Monitoring Systems\x94 ( . Patent . , , ) and \x93Network Sales Systems\x94 ( . Patent Nos. , , and , , ) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages amount less than reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys\x92 fees. dispute the allegations wrongdoing this complaint and intend vigorously defend ourselves this matter. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Depending the amount and the timing, unfavorable resolution some all these matters could materially affect our business, future results operations, financial position, cash flows particular period. Inventory Suppliers During , vendor accounted for % more our inventory purchases. not have long-term contracts arrangements with most our vendors guarantee the availability merchandise, particular payment terms, the extension credit limits. Note \x97STOCKHOLDERS\x92 DEFICIT Preferred Stock have authorized , , shares $ par value Preferred Stock. preferred stock shares were outstanding during , , . Stock Award Plans Our stock award plans consist the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan, and the Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan. Shares reserved under these plans consist million shares the Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, million shares the Stock Incentive Plan and million shares the Stock Option Plan, which maximum , , shares that are not issued under that plan may added the aggregate number shares available for issuance under the Stock Incentive Plan. connection with certain acquisitions and , assumed outstanding options purchase common stock originally granted under the acquired companies\x92 stock option plans. Our stock award plans well the assumed stock award plans are hereby collectively referred the \x93Plans.\x94 , transitioned using restricted stock units, awarded under the Stock Incentive Plan, our primary vehicle for employee equity compensation. Employees vest restricted stock unit awards ratably over the corresponding service term, generally three six years. relates stock option awards, our Board Directors generally sets exercise price not less than the fair market value our common stock the date grant. Generally, outstanding options granted subsequent December , have term years from the date grant. Subject Internal Revenue Service limitations, options granted under our plans prior April and granted under certain assumed plans generally became exercisable immediately, but are subject restriction transfer that lapses over period time. Options granted under the Plans since April generally vest and become exercisable accordance with the following vesting schedule: % after year one, % after year two and % the end each quarter for years three through five. Certain outstanding options that were granted during and vest and become exercisable the rate % after year one and % after year two. During the first quarter , offered limited non-compulsory exchange employee stock options employees meeting certain eligibility criteria. Options granted pursuant this stock option exchange vested and became exercisable the rate % after months from the date grant and % per month for the succeeding months. Certain options granted the third quarter generally vest and become exercisable follows: ( ) the option vests quarterly equal installments over , month period commencing dates ranging from grant date October , , ( ) the option vests % % date approximately months from date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period, (iii) the option vests % % dates approximately months and months from the date grant with the balance vesting quarterly equal installments over month period. Shares issued upon exercise options that are unvested are restricted and subject repurchase the exercise price upon termination employment services and such restrictions lapse over the vesting schedule. December , , approximately , shares restricted common stock, which includes AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) restricted shares issued connection with acquisitions well shares issued certain key employees and , were subject repurchase forfeiture. Stock Award Activity During , restricted stock units increased million shares, resulting from grants million, offset vesting million shares and cancellation million shares. Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Outstanding restricted stock units , , , The following table summarizes our stock option activity: Number Shares ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted , Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , Options granted Options terminated ( , ) Options exercised ( , ) Balance December , , December , , million shares common stock were available for future grant under the Plans. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding December , : Stock Awards Outstanding Awards Vested Range Exercise Prices Number Awards ( thousands) Remaining Life (yrs) Weighted Average Exercise Price Number Awards ( thousands) Weighted Average Exercise Price \x96 , , \x96 , , \x96 , \x96 , \x96 , \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 , , AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Comprehensive Income (Loss) The changes the components comprehensive income (loss) were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign-currency translation gains (losses), net , , ( , ) Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities: Unrealized gains (losses) arising during year , , ( , ) Less reclassification net realized (gains) losses included net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) , Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities , , , Net activity Euro currency swap (See Note ): Remeasurement Euro currency swap fair value , , ( , ) Reclassification (gains) losses offset currency losses and gains hedged portion % PEACS included net income (loss) ( , ) ( , ) , Amortization net unrealized losses Euro Currency Swap , \x97 \x97 Net activity Euro currency swap , , ( , ) Reclassification currency gains % PEACS \x97 \x97 ( , ) Cumulative effect accounting change adopt SFAS . \x97 \x97 ( , ) Other comprehensive income (loss) , , ( , ) Comprehensive income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Net unrealized gains foreign currency translation $ , $ , Net unrealized gains available-for-sale securities , , Net unrealized losses Euro currency swap ( , ) ( , ) Total accumulated other comprehensive income , , Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance December , , common stock reserved for future issuance follows ( thousands): Stock awards, including restricted stock units , Shares issuable upon conversion % Convertible Subordinated Notes ( ) , Shares issuable upon conversion % PEACS , Total common stock reserved for future issuance , ( ) See \x93Note \x97Subsequent Events.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE The following represents the calculations for net earnings (loss) per share ( thousands, except per share data): For the Years Ended December , Income (loss) before change accounting principle $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) $ , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Weighted average shares outstanding , , , Weighted average shares restricted stock ( ) ( , ) ( ) Shares used computation basic earnings (loss) per share , , , Total dilutive effect outstanding stock awards ( ) , \x97 \x97 Shares used computation diluted earnings (loss) per share , , , Basic earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) Total earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share: Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 ( ) Total earnings (loss) per share $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) The effect outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock, antidilutive for periods that have net loss and, accordingly, excluded from the calculation diluted loss per share those periods. The dilutive effect stock awards and restricted stock included the calculation weighted average shares, using the treasury stock method, for periods that have net income. Note \x97RESTRUCTURING-RELATED AND OTHER the first quarter , announced and began implementation our operational restructuring plan reduce operating costs, streamline our organizational structure, consolidate certain our fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction employee staff , positions throughout the Company managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation our Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure our McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington fulfillment centers; closure our customer service centers Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration large portion our technology infrastructure new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid were $ million. The restructuring complete; however may adjust our restructuring-related estimates the future, necessary. Restructuring-related expenses $ million were incurred during the year ended December , relating updated estimates sub-lease income due weakness real estate markets. Restructuring-related and other expenses were $ million and $ million for and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Restructuring-related charges were follows ( thousands): Years Ended December , Asset impairments $ \x97 $ , $ , Continuing lease obligations , , Termination benefits \x97 \x97 , Broker commissions, professional fees, and other miscellaneous restructuring costs \x97 , Total restructuring-related charges $ $ , $ , December , , the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related and other charges was $ million and consisted the following ( thousands): Balance December , Subsequent Accruals, Net Payments Balance December , Due Within Months( ) Due After Months( ) Lease obligations, net estimated sublease income $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , Broker commissions, professional fees and other miscellaneous restructuring costs , ( , ) ( ) , $ , $ $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ , ( ) Restructuring-related liabilities due within months and due after months are classified \x93Accrued expenses and other current liabilities\x94 and \x93Long-term debt and other,\x94 the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Restructuring-related lease obligations are follows ( thousands): Thereafter Total Gross lease obligations $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Estimated sublease income ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Lease obligations, net $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) December , , had signed contractual sublease agreements covering $ million future payments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Gains sales marketable securities, net $ , $ , $ , Foreign-currency transaction losses, net ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Miscellaneous state, foreign and other taxes ( , ) ( , ) Other miscellaneous gains (losses), net ( ) Total other income (expense), net $ , $ , $ ( , ) ( ) Includes loss $ million and $ million for and , and gain $ million for associated with the remeasurement from Euros . Dollars interest obligations our % PEACS. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 Note \x97REMEASUREMENT % PEACS AND OTHER Remeasurement % PEACS and other consisted the following ( thousands): Years Ended December , Foreign-currency gain (loss) % PEACS $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , Gain (loss) sales Euro-denominated investments, net , , ( , ) Gain sales equity investments, net , \x97 Gain from terminations commercial contracts \x97 \x97 , Net gain from acquisition investments third parties \x97 \x97 Loss redemption long-term debt (See Note ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Loss termination Euro Currency Swap (See Note ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Amortization net unrealized losses Euro Currency Swap (See Note ) ( , ) \x97 \x97 Foreign currency effect intercompany balances ( ) , \x97 \x97 Other-than-temporary impairments and other ( ) ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Total remeasurement % PEACS and other $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Represents the gain associated with the remeasurement intercompany balances due changes foreign exchange rates (See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies\x94 ). ( ) Includes $ million gain the sale our mail-order toy catalog business for $ million cash recorded the third quarter . Note \x97INCOME TAXES have provided for current and deferred . federal, state, and foreign income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred income taxes were provided with respect jurisdictions where our subsidiaries produce taxable income. December , , have recorded net deferred tax asset $ million, which consists primarily certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. have provided valuation allowance for the remainder our deferred tax asset, consisting primarily net operating loss carryforwards, because uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase the valuation allowance the deferred tax asset was $ million and $ million for and . AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components our net deferred tax assets, which are included \x93Accounts receivable, net and other current assets,\x94 are follows ( thousands): December , Deferred tax assets: Net operating losses $ , $ , Investment-related , , Revenue items , , Expense items , , Total gross deferred tax assets , , , , Less valuation allowance ( , , ) ( , , ) Net deferred tax assets , , Deferred tax liabilities\x97Expense items ( , ) ( ) Total net deferred tax asset $ , $ , December , , had net operating loss carryforwards approximately $ billion related . federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization net operating losses, which begin expire various times starting , may subject certain limitations under Sections and the Internal Revenue Code , amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $ million capital loss carryforwards begin expire . Approximately $ billion our net operating loss carryforwards relates tax deductible stock-based compensation excess amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, realized, relate stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will recorded stockholders\x92 equity, rather than results operations. Note \x97EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN have ( ) savings plan covering substantially all our . employees, and eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. Beginning April , began matching portion employee contributions using our common stock. During the year ended December , , issued , shares our common stock connection with matching contributions for the ( ) savings plan. Note \x97SEGMENT INFORMATION present segment information along the same lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our operating results assessing performance and allocating resources. During the first quarter , our chief operating decision maker began reviewing operating results along two lines: North America and International. This change was prompted the increasing prominence and overall importance third-party sellers our websites, well how both capital and human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment operations. measure operating results our segments using internal performance measure direct segment operating expenses that exclude stock-based compensation, amortization other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges, each which not allocated segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated segment results. There are internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) North America The North America segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products through www amazon com and www amazon (including from third-party sellers), from North America focused Syndicated Stores and mail-order catalogs, and from non-retail activities such North America focused Merchant com, marketing, and promotional agreements. International The International segment consists amounts earned from retail sales consumer products through internationally focused websites, such www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon (including from third-party sellers), from internationally focused Syndicated Stores and from non-retail activities such internationally focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from www amazon , www amazon , www amazon , and www amazon (including export sales from these sites customers the . and Canada), but excludes export sales from www amazon com and www amazon . Information reportable segments and reconciliation consolidated net income (loss) follows ( thousands): Year Ended : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Segment operating income , , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( ) Net income $ , Year Ended : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , Segment operating income , , Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle Net loss $ ( , ) AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Year Ended : North America International Consolidated Net sales $ , , $ , $ , , Gross profit , , , Segment operating income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation ( , ) Amortization goodwill and other intangibles ( , ) Restructuring-related and other ( , ) Total non-operating expenses, net ( , ) Equity losses equity-method investees, net ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle ( , ) Net loss $ ( , ) Net sales shipped customers outside the . represented approximately %, %, and % net sales for , , and . Shipments into the United Kingdom represents approximately % and % total net sales and , and shipments into Germany represents % total net sales . Net fixed assets held locations outside the . were $ million December , . Depreciation expense, segment, was follows ( thousands): North America International Consolidated $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , Note \x97FAIR VALUES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values our financial instruments were follows ( thousands): December , December , Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying Amount Fair Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , , $ , $ , Marketable securities ( ) , , , , Other equity investments ( ) , , , , Euro currency swap ( ) \x97 \x97 , , Long-term debt ( ) , , , , , , , , ( ) The fair value marketable securities determined from publicly quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.\x94 ( ) The fair value other equity investments determined from publicly quoted prices, plus the carrying amount privately-held investments for which market values are not readily determinable. evaluate \x93Other equity investments\x94 for impairment accordance with our stated policy. See \x93Note \x97Description Business and Accounting Policies,\x94 and \x93Note \x97Other Equity Investments.\x94 ( ) The fair value the Euro currency swap was determined based third-party valuation. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94. ( ) The fair value our long-term debt determined based quoted prices. See \x93Note \x97Long-Term Debt and Other.\x94 AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97SUBSEQUENT EVENTS January , , announced that will redeem $ million principal amount our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes February , . The redemption price set % the principal amount maturity, plus accrued and unpaid interest from February through February , . After completion the redemption $ million principal, there will approximately $ million aggregate principal amount % Convertible Subordinated Notes outstanding. Additionally, January , , our Board Directors authorized debt repurchase program pursuant which may from time time repurchase (through open market repurchases private transactions), redeem otherwise retire aggregate $ million our outstanding % Convertible Subordinated Notes and % PEACS. AMAZON COM, INC. NOTES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS\x97(Continued) Note \x97QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement operations information for each quarter , , and . The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair presentation the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative results for any future period. Unaudited quarterly results were follows ( thousands, except per share data): Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross profit , , , , Net income (loss) , , ( , ) ( , ) Basic earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 \x97 $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , Year Ended December , Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , Income (loss) before change accounting principle , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( , ) Net income (loss) , ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share ( ): Prior cumulative effect change accounting principle $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Cumulative effect change accounting principle \x97 \x97 \x97 ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) $ ( ) Shares used computation earnings (loss) per share: Basic , , , , Diluted , , , , ( ) The sum quarterly per share amounts may not equal per share amounts reported for year- -date periods. This due changes the number weighted-average shares outstanding and the effects rounding for each period. ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures carried out evaluation required the Act, under the supervision and with the participation our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness the design and operation our disclosure controls and procedures the end the period covered this report. Based this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective timely alerting them material information required included our periodic SEC reports. should noted that any system controls based part upon certain assumptions designed obtain reasonable (and not absolute) assurance its effectiveness, and there can assurance that any design will succeed achieving its stated goals. During the most recent fiscal quarter, there has not occurred any change our internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. Item . Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Deficit for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Diego Piacentini, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) Reports Form - : October , , filed Form - announcing our third quarter financial results. SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the registrant has duly caused this Report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, February , . AMAZON COM, INC. : / / EFFREY . EZOS Jeffrey . Bezos President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman the Board Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this Report has been signed below the following persons behalf the registrant and the capacities indicated February , . Signature Title / / EFFREY . EZOS Jeffrey . Bezos Chairman the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) / / HOMAS . ZKUTAK Thomas . Szkutak Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) / / ARK . EEK Mark . Peek Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) / / . LBERG Tom . Alberg Director / / . OHN OERR . John Doerr Director / / ILLIAM . ORDON William . Gordon Director / / HOMAS . YDER Thomas . Ryder Director / / ATRICIA . TONESIFER Patricia . Stonesifer Director AMAZON COM, INC. SCHEDULE \x97VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Accounts receivable and other current assets \x97Reserves Year Ended Balance Beginning Period Charged Costs and Expenses Amounts Written Off Balance End Period ( thousands) December , $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , December , , , ( ) , December , , , ( , ) , EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Diego Piacentini, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreemen', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required Item Part III set forth Item Part \x93Business\x97Executive Officers and Directors.\x94 Information required Item Part III regarding our Directors included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders, and incorporated herein reference. Information relating our Code Conduct and Ethics and compliance with Section ( ) the Act set forth our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required Item Part III included our Proxy Statement relating our annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports Form - ( ) List Documents Filed Part This Report: ( ) Index Consolidated Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Statements Operations for each the three years ended December , Consolidated Balance Sheets December , and Consolidated Statements Stockholders\x92 Deficit for each the three years ended December , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements ( ) Index Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule \x97Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information included the consolidated financial statements the notes thereto, not applicable required. ( ) Index Exhibits Exhibit Number Description Restated Certificate Incorporation the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter ended March , ). Restated Bylaws the Company (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Indenture, dated May , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). Form % Senior Discount Notes Due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed June , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and The Bank New York, trustee, including the form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes Due attached Exhibit thereto (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Registration Rights Agreement, dated February , , and among Amazon com, Inc. and the Initial Purchasers (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Indenture, dated February , , between Amazon com, Inc. and the Bank New York, trustee (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). Form / % Convertible Subordinated Notes due (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Current Report Form - dated February , ). \x86 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (version December , for Amended and Restated Grants and version December , for New Grants) (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Exhibit Number Description \x86 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated reference Appendix the Company\x92 Proxy Statement Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission March , ). \x86 Non-Officer Employee Stock Option Plan (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). Common Stock Purchase Agreement, dated July , , between Amazon com, Inc. and America Online, Inc. (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended June , ). \x86 Form Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each its Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Registration Statement Form - (Registration . - ) filed March , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Rick Dalzell, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Diego Piacentini, dated January , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Executive Compensation Letter Diego Piacentini, dated May , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Offer Letter Employment Thomas . Szkutak, dated August , (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Officers and Employees (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for Directors (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). \x86 Form Restricted Stock Agreement (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Annual Report Form - for the Year Ended December , ). Computation Ratio Earnings Fixed Charges. Preferability Letter Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors, regarding change accounting principle (incorporated reference the Company\x92 Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarter Ended March , ). List Significant Subsidiaries. Consent Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant Rule 13a- ( ) under the Securities Exchange Act . Certification Jeffrey . Bezos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . Certification Thomas . Szkutak, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amazon com, Inc., pursuant . Section . \x86 Executive Compensation Plan Agreement ( ) Reports Form - : October , , filed Form - announcing our third quarter financial results. ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}