{'item 1. ': 'Business Company Background The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells variety related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company’ products and services include iPhone ® , iPad ® , Mac ® , Apple Watch ® , Apple ® , portfolio consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS ® , watchOS ® and tvOS™ operating systems, iCloud ® , Apple Pay ® and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store ® , App Store ® , Mac App Store, App Store, iBooks Store ® and Apple Music ® (collectively “Digital Content and Services”). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company’ fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company California corporation established . Business Strategy The Company committed bringing the best user experience its customers through its innovative hardware, software and services. The Company’ business strategy leverages its unique ability design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software and services provide its customers products and solutions with innovative design, superior ease- -use and seamless integration. part its strategy, the Company continues expand its platform for the discovery and delivery digital content and applications through its Digital Content and Services, which allows customers discover and download digital content, iOS, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple applications, and books through either Mac Windows personal computer through iPhone, iPad and iPod touch ® devices (“iOS devices”), Apple and Apple Watch. The Company also supports community for the development third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company’ offerings. The Company believes high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the Company’ products and services greatly enhances its ability attract and retain customers. Therefore, the Company’ strategy also includes building and expanding its own retail and online stores and its third-party distribution network effectively reach more customers and provide them with high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. The Company believes ongoing investment research and development (“ & ”), marketing and advertising critical the development and sale innovative products, services and technologies. Business Organization The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’ reportable segments may found Part , Item this Form - under the subheading “Segment Operating Performance,” and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data.” Apple Inc. | Form - | Products iPhone iPhone the Company’ line smartphones based its iOS operating system. iPhone includes Siri ® , voice-activated intelligent assistant, and Apple Pay and Touch ® qualifying devices. September , the Company introduced iPhone and Plus, featuring new glass and aluminum design, enhanced cameras and speakers, wireless charging and augmented reality optimization. Additionally, September , the Company announced iPhone , featuring all-glass design with Super Retina™ OLED display and facial recognition. iPhone and Plus were available starting September , and iPhone expected available November . The Company’ line smartphones also includes iPhone , Plus, , Plus and models. iPhone works with the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps. iPad iPad the Company’ line multi-purpose tablets based its iOS operating system, which includes iPad Pro ® , iPad and iPad mini™. iPad includes Siri, Apple Pay and Touch . June , the Company released new -inch iPad Pro and updated -inch iPad Pro with more advanced displays and enhanced performance. iPad works with the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music for purchasing, organizing and playing digital content and apps. Mac Mac the Company’ line desktop and portable personal computers based its macOS operating system. Mac includes Siri and Apple Pay and also includes Touch qualifying devices. The Company’ desktop computers include iMac ® , ” iMac with Retina ® display, ” iMac with Retina display, Mac Pro ® and Mac mini ® . June , the Company announced the new iMac Pro™, which expected available December . The Company’ portable computers include MacBook ® , MacBook Air ® , MacBook Pro ® and MacBook Pro with Touch Bar™. Operating Systems iOS iOS the Company’ mobile operating system that serves the foundation for iOS devices. Devices running iOS are compatible with both Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple’ iCloud services. September , the Company released iOS , which includes new iPad features, new capabilities improve images Photos and Camera, enhanced Siri functionality and redesigned App Store. iOS also introduces ARKit, augmented reality framework for developers. macOS macOS the Company’ desktop operating system and built open-source UNIX-based foundation and provides intuitive and integrated computer experience. Support for iCloud built into macOS users can access content and information from Mac, iOS devices and other supported devices and access downloaded content and apps from the iTunes Store. macOS High Sierra, released September , the 14th major release macOS and incorporates new storage, video and graphics technologies, and includes improvements Photos, Safari ® and Mail. watchOS watchOS the Company’ operating system for Apple Watch. September , the Company released watchOS , which adds proactive Siri watch face that displays the information users need most throughout the day, personalized activity coaching and new music experience. watchOS also includes enhanced Workout app and introduces GymKit™, technology platform that offers users connected workouts with cardio equipment. tvOS tvOS the Company’ operating system for Apple . The tvOS operating system based the Company’ iOS platform and enables developers create new apps and games specifically for Apple and deliver them customers through the Apple App Store. tvOS incorporates Siri capabilities that allow searching across apps and services. Apple Inc. | Form - | Application Software The Company’ application software includes iWork ® and various other software, including Final Cut Pro ® , Logic Pro ® and FileMaker ® Pro. iWork the Company’ integrated productivity suite included with all Mac computers and designed help users create, present and publish documents through Pages ® , presentations through Keynote ® and spreadsheets through Numbers ® . The Company also has Multi-Touch™ versions iWork applications designed specifically for use iOS devices, which are available free downloads for all new iOS devices. Services Digital Content and Services The iTunes Store, available for iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple , allows customers purchase and download music and shows, rent purchase movies and download free podcasts. The App Store, available for iOS devices, allows customers discover and download apps and purchase -app content. The Mac App Store, available for Mac computers, allows customers discover, download and install Mac applications. The App Store allows customers access apps and games specifically for Apple . The iBooks Store, available for iOS devices and Mac computers, features -books from major and independent publishers. Apple Music offers users curated listening experience with -demand radio stations that evolve based user’ play download activity and subscription-based internet streaming service that also provides unlimited access the Apple Music library. iCloud iCloud the Company’ cloud service which stores music, photos, contacts, calendars, mail, documents and more, keeping them - -date and available across multiple iOS devices, Mac and Windows personal computers and Apple . iCloud services include iCloud Drive ® , iCloud Photo Library, Family Sharing, Find iPhone, iPad Mac, Find Friends, Notes, iCloud Keychain ® and iCloud Backup for iOS devices. AppleCare The Company offers range support options for its customers. These include assistance that built into software products, electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information well technical assistance, the AppleCare ® Protection Plan (“APP”) and AppleCare+ (“ +”). APP and + are fee-based services that extend the coverage phone support eligibility and hardware warranty repairs. APP and + offer additional coverage under some circumstances for instances accidental damage and are available certain countries for certain products. Apple Pay Apple Pay the Company’ cashless payment service available certain countries that offers easy, secure and private way pay. Apple Pay allows users pay for purchases participating stores accepting contactless payments and pay for purchases within participating apps qualifying devices. Apple Pay accepts credit and debit cards across major card networks and also supports reward programs and store-issued credit and debit cards. The Company expects release update iOS and watchOS fall that will allow peer- -peer payments using Apple Pay. Other Products Accessories The Company sells variety Apple-branded and third-party accessories, including Beats ® products, headphones, displays, storage devices, and various other connectivity and computing products and supplies. December , the Company released AirPods ® , new wireless headphones that interact with Siri. Additionally, June , the Company announced the HomePod™ wireless speaker and September , announced AirPower™, new wireless charging accessory, which are expected available December and calendar year , respectively. Apple Apple connects consumers’ TVs and enables them access digital content directly for streaming video, playing music and games, and viewing photos. Content from Apple Music and other media services also available Apple . Apple allows streaming digital content from Mac and Windows personal computers through Home Share and from compatible Mac and iOS devices through AirPlay ® . Apple runs the Company’ tvOS operating system and based apps built for the television. Additionally, the Apple remote features Siri, allowing users search and access content with their voice. September , the Company introduced Apple , which supports and High Dynamic Range content, providing customers with enhanced picture quality. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Watch Apple Watch personal electronic device that combines the watchOS user interface and technologies created specifically for smaller device, including the Digital Crown™, unique navigation tool that allows users seamlessly scroll, zoom and navigate, and Force Touch, technology that senses the difference between tap and press and allows users access controls within apps. Apple Watch enables users communicate new ways from their wrist, track their health and fitness through activity and workout apps, and includes Siri and Apple Pay. September , the Company introduced Apple Watch Series , featuring health and fitness enhancements and built- cellular capability qualifying devices. iPod touch iPod touch, based the Company’ iOS operating system, flash memory-based digital music and media player that works with the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music for purchasing and playing digital content and apps. Developer Programs The Company’ developer programs support app developers with building, testing and distributing apps for iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS. Developer program membership provides access beta software and advanced app capabilities ( ., CloudKit ® , HealthKit™ and Apple Pay), the ability test apps using TestFlight ® , distribution the App Store, access App Analytics and code-level technical support. Developer programs also exist for businesses creating apps for internal use (the Apple Developer Enterprise Program) and developers creating accessories for Apple devices (the MFi Program). All developers, even those who are not developer program members, can sign with their Apple post the Apple Developer Forums and use Xcode ® , the Company’ integrated development environment for creating apps for Apple platforms. Xcode includes project management tools; analysis tools collect, display and compare app performance data; simulation tools locally run, test and debug apps; and tools simplify the design and development user interfaces. All developers also have access extensive technical documentation and sample code. Markets and Distribution The Company’ customers are primarily the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products most its major markets directly consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs variety indirect distribution channels, such third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. During , the Company’ net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for % and %, respectively, total net sales. The Company believes that sales its innovative and differentiated products and services are enhanced knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value the hardware and software integration and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers effective way demonstrate the advantages its products over those its competitors and providing high-quality sales and after-sales support experience critical attracting new and retaining existing customers. ensure high-quality buying experience for its products which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues build and improve its distribution capabilities expanding the number its own retail stores worldwide. The Company’ retail stores are typically located high-traffic locations quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. operating its own stores and locating them desirable high-traffic locations the Company better positioned ensure high-quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing the Company’ products and related solutions. The retail stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training, and offer wide selection third-party hardware, software and other accessories that complement the Company’ products. The Company has also invested programs enhance reseller sales placing high-quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus the Apple platform providing high level product expertise, integration and support services. The Company committed delivering solutions help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration technology into classroom instruction can result higher levels student achievement and has designed range products, services and programs address the needs education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution , and access , education-related materials through iTunes ® , platform that allows students and teachers share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its retail and online stores. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company also sells its hardware and software products enterprise and government customers each its reportable segments. The Company’ products are deployed these markets because their performance, productivity, ease- -use and seamless integration into information technology environments. The Company’ products are compatible with thousands third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment custom applications well remote device administration. single customer accounted for more than % net sales , and . Competition The markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive and the Company confronted aggressive competition all areas its business. These markets are characterized frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use mobile communication and media devices, personal computers and other digital electronic devices. Many the Company’ competitors that sell mobile devices and personal computers based other operating systems seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. The Company’ financial condition and operating results can adversely affected these and other industry-wide downward pressures gross margins. Principal competitive factors important the Company include price, product features (including security features), relative price and performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support and corporate reputation. The Company focused expanding its market opportunities related personal computers and mobile communication and media devices. These markets are highly competitive and include many large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition these markets intensify significantly competitors attempt imitate some the features the Company’ products and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These markets are characterized aggressive price competition, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors and price sensitivity the part consumers and businesses. The Company’ digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer- -peer music and video services. The Company’ future financial condition and operating results depend the Company’ ability continue develop and offer new innovative products and services each the markets which competes. The Company believes offers superior innovation and integration the entire solution including the hardware (iOS devices, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple ), software (iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS), online services and distribution digital content and applications (Digital Content and Services). Some the Company’ current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may able provide such products and services little profit even loss compete with the Company’ offerings. Supply Components Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, few components are currently obtained from single limited sources. addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company’ supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company’ financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company’ business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are currently manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturers for many the Company’ products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company’ operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company’ manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover its requirements for periods days . Research and Development Because the industries which the Company competes are characterized rapid technological advances, the Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability ensure continual and timely flow competitive products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company continues develop new technologies enhance existing products and services, and expand the range its offerings through & , licensing intellectual property and acquisition third-party businesses and technology. Total & expense was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. Intellectual Property The Company currently holds broad collection intellectual property rights relating certain aspects its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other forms intellectual property rights the . and number foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership such intellectual property rights important factor its business and that its success does depend part such ownership, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities its personnel. The Company regularly files patent applications protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and currently pursuing thousands patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated large portfolio issued patents, including utility patents, design patents and others. The Company also holds copyrights relating certain aspects its products and services. single intellectual property right solely responsible for protecting the Company’ products. The Company believes the duration its intellectual property rights adequate relative the expected lives its products. Many the Company’ products are designed include intellectual property obtained from third parties. may necessary the future seek renew licenses relating various aspects its products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able obtain such licenses commercially reasonable terms the past, there guarantee that such licenses could obtained the future reasonable terms all. Because technological changes the industries which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company’ products, processes and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents intellectual property rights others. From time time, the Company has been notified that may infringing certain patents other intellectual property rights third parties. Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data During , the Company’ domestic and international net sales accounted for % and % , respectively, total net sales. Information regarding financial data geographic segment set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading “Segment Operating Performance,” and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data.” Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are currently manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. The supply and manufacture number components performed sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe. Margins sales the Company’ products foreign countries and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding concentration the available sources supply materials and products set forth Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies.” Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters its fiscal year due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Product introductions can also impact the Company’ net sales its indirect distribution channels these channels are filled with new product inventory following product introduction, and often, channel inventory particular product declines the next related major product launch approaches. Net sales can also affected when consumers and distributors anticipate product introduction. However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns product introductions should considered reliable indicators the Company’ future pattern product introductions, future net sales financial performance. Apple Inc. | Form - | Warranty The Company offers limited parts and labor warranty its hardware products. The basic warranty period typically one year from the date purchase the original end-user. The Company also offers -day limited warranty the service parts used repair the Company’ hardware products. certain jurisdictions, local law requires that manufacturers guarantee their products for period prescribed statute, typically least two years. addition, where available, consumers may purchase APP +, which extends service coverage many the Company’ hardware products. Backlog the Company’ experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases immediately following new product introductions customers anticipate shortages. Backlog often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company’ ability achieve any particular level revenue financial performance. Employees September , , the Company had approximately , full-time equivalent employees. Available Infor mation The Company’ Annual Report Form - , Quarterly Reports Form - , Current Reports Form - , and amendments reports filed pursuant Sections ( ) and ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the “Exchange Act”), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company subject the informational requirements the Exchange Act and files furnishes reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed the Company with the SEC are available free charge the Company’ website investor apple com sec cfm when such reports are available the SEC’ website. The public may read and copy any materials filed the Company with the SEC the SEC’ Public Reference Room Street, , Room , Washington, . The public may obtain information the operation the Public Reference Room calling the SEC - -SEC- . The SEC maintains internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC www sec gov. The information contained the websites referenced this Form - not incorporated reference into this filing. Further, the Company’ references website URLs are intended inactive textual references only. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 1a. ': 'Risk Factors The following discussion risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may important understanding other statements this Form - . The following information should read conjunction with Part , Item , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes Part , Item , “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” this Form - . The business, financial condition and operating results the Company can affected number factors, whether currently known unknown, including but not limited those described below, any one more which could, directly indirectly, cause the Company’ actual financial condition and operating results vary materially from past, from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any these factors, whole part, could materially and adversely affect the Company’ business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. Because the following factors, well other factors affecting the Company’ financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company’ operations and performance depend significantly global and regional economic conditions. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions poses risk consumers and businesses may postpone spending response tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, government austerity programs, negative financial news, declines income asset values and other factors. These worldwide and regional economic conditions could have material adverse effect demand for the Company’ products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company’ expectations result currency fluctuations because the Company generally raises prices goods and services sold outside the . correspond with the effect strengthening the . dollar. Other factors that could influence worldwide regional demand include changes fuel and other energy costs, conditions the real estate and mortgage markets, unemployment, labor and healthcare costs, access credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company’ products and services. the event financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, there could tightening the credit markets, low liquidity and extreme volatility fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. This could have number effects the Company’ business, including the insolvency financial instability outsourcing partners suppliers their inability obtain credit finance development and manufacture products, resulting product delays; inability customers, including channel partners, obtain credit finance purchases the Company’ products; failure derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; and restrictions the Company’ ability issue new debt. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending gains losses realized the sale exchange financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations debt and equity securities and other investments; changes interest rates; increases decreases cash balances; volatility foreign exchange rates; and changes fair value derivative instruments. Increased volatility the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk the actual amounts realized the future the Company’ financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned them. Global markets for the Company’ products and services are highly competitive and subject rapid technological change, and the Company may unable compete effectively these markets. The Company’ products and services compete highly competitive global markets characterized aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure gross margins, frequent introduction new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement product price performance characteristics, rapid adoption technological and product advancements competitors and price sensitivity the part consumers. The Company’ ability compete successfully depends heavily its ability ensure continuing and timely introduction innovative new products, services and technologies the marketplace. The Company believes unique that designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. result, the Company must make significant investments & . The Company currently holds significant number patents and copyrights and has registered and has applied register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. contrast, many the Company’ competitors seek compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and emulating the Company’ products and infringing its intellectual property. the Company unable continue develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins competitors infringe the Company’ intellectual property, the Company’ ability maintain competitive advantage could adversely affected. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company markets certain mobile communication and media devices based the iOS mobile operating system and also markets related services, including third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, well established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships; and the Company has minority market share the global smartphone market. Additionally, the Company faces significant competition competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt imitate the Company’ product features and applications within their own products , alternatively, collaborate with each other offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company competes with business models that provide content users for free. The Company also competes with illegitimate means obtain third-party digital content and applications. Some the Company’ competitors have greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and lower cost structure, they may able provide products and services little profit even loss. The Company also expects competition intensify competitors attempt imitate the Company’ approach providing components seamlessly within their individual offerings work collaboratively offer integrated solutions. The Company’ financial condition and operating results depend substantially the Company’ ability continually improve iOS and iOS devices order maintain their functional and design advantages. The Company the only authorized maker hardware using macOS, which has minority market share the personal computer market. This market has been contracting and dominated computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. the market for personal computers and accessories, the Company faces significant number competitors, many which have broader product lines, lower-priced products and larger installed customer base. Historically, consolidation this market has resulted larger competitors. Competition has been particularly intense competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. increasing number internet-enabled devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company’ existing products. The Company’ financial condition and operating results also depend its ability continually improve the Mac platform maintain its functional and design advantages. There can assurance the Company will able continue provide products and services that compete effectively. remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. Due the highly volatile and competitive nature the industries which the Company competes, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products and successfully manage the transition these new and upgraded products. The success new product introductions depends number factors including, but not limited , timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company’ ability manage the risks associated with new product production ramp- issues, the availability application software for new products, the effective management purchase commitments and inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, the availability products appropriate quantities and expected costs meet anticipated demand and the risk that new products may have quality other defects deficiencies the early stages introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions. The Company depends the performance distributors, carriers and other resellers. The Company distributes its products through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, national and regional retailers and value-added resellers, many whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells its products and third-party products most its major markets directly education, enterprise and government customers and consumers and small and mid-sized businesses through its retail and online stores. Some carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone subsidize users’ purchases the device. There assurance that such subsidies will continued all the same amounts upon renewal the Company’ agreements with these carriers agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. The Company has invested and will continue invest programs enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays. These programs could require substantial investment while providing assurance return incremental revenue. The financial condition these resellers could weaken, these resellers could stop distributing the Company’ products, uncertainty regarding demand for some all the Company’ products could cause resellers reduce their ordering and marketing the Company’ products. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk addition purchase commitment cancellation risk. The Company records write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete exceed anticipated demand net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets, including capital assets held its suppliers’ facilities and inventory prepayments, for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. the Company determines that impairment has occurred, records write-down equal the amount which the carrying value the asset exceeds its fair value. Although the Company believes its provisions related inventory, capital assets, inventory prepayments and other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, assurance can given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace product obsolescence the industries which the Company competes. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory advance product announcements and shipments. Manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods days . Because the Company’ markets are volatile, competitive and subject rapid technology and price changes, there risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order produce excess insufficient amounts components products, not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Future operating results depend upon the Company’ ability obtain components sufficient quantities commercially reasonable terms. Because the Company currently obtains components from single limited sources, the Company subject significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. While the Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components, there can assurance that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. number suppliers components may suffer from poor financial conditions, which can lead business failure for the supplier consolidation within particular industry, further limiting the Company’ ability obtain sufficient quantities components commercially reasonable terms. The effects global regional economic conditions the Company’ suppliers, described “ Global and regional economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company” above, also could affect the Company’ ability obtain components . Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases. The Company’ new products often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected for any number reasons, including those suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The supply components for new existing product could delayed constrained, key manufacturing vendor could delay shipments completed products the Company. The Company depends component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided outsourcing partners, many which are located outside the . Substantially all the Company’ manufacturing performed whole part few outsourcing partners located primarily Asia. The Company has also outsourced much its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’ direct control over production and distribution. uncertain what effect such diminished control will have the quality quantity products services, the Company’ flexibility respond changing conditions. Although arrangements with these partners may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible the consumer for warranty service the event product defects and could experience unanticipated product defect warranty liability. While the Company relies its partners adhere its supplier code conduct, material violations the supplier code conduct could occur. The Company relies sole-sourced outsourcing partners the ., Asia and Europe supply and manufacture many critical components, and outsourcing partners primarily located Asia, for final assembly substantially all the Company’ hardware products. Any failure these partners perform may have negative impact the Company’ cost supply components finished goods. addition, manufacturing logistics these locations transit final destinations may disrupted for variety reasons including, but not limited , natural and man-made disasters, information technology system failures, commercial disputes, military actions economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, political issues. The Company has invested manufacturing process equipment, much which held certain its outsourcing partners, and has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements. While these arrangements help ensure the supply components and finished goods, these outsourcing partners suppliers experience severe financial problems other disruptions their business, such continued supply could reduced terminated and the net realizable value these assets could negatively impacted. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ products and services may experience quality problems from time time that can result decreased sales and operating margin and harm the Company’ reputation. The Company sells complex hardware and software products and services that can contain design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such those sold the Company, often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with the software’ intended operation. The Company’ online services may from time time experience outages, service slowdowns errors. Defects may also occur components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can assurance the Company will able detect and fix all defects the hardware, software and services sells. Failure could result lost revenue, significant warranty and other expenses and harm the Company’ reputation. The Company relies access third-party digital content, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. The Company contracts with numerous third parties offer their digital content customers. This includes the right sell currently available music, movies, shows and books. The licensing other distribution arrangements with these third parties are for relatively short terms and not guarantee the continuation renewal these arrangements reasonable terms, all. Some third-party content providers and distributors currently the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action make more difficult impossible for the Company license otherwise distribute their content the future. Other content owners, providers distributors may seek limit the Company’ access , increase the cost , such content. The Company may unable continue offer wide variety content reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, continue expand its geographic reach. Failure obtain the right make third-party digital content available, make such content available commercially reasonable terms, could have material adverse impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Some third-party digital content providers require the Company provide digital rights management and other security solutions. requirements change, the Company may have develop license new technology provide these solutions. There assurance the Company will able develop license such solutions reasonable cost and timely manner. addition, certain countries have passed may propose and adopt legislation that would force the Company license its digital rights management, which could lessen the protection content and subject piracy and also could negatively affect arrangements with the Company’ content providers. The Company’ future performance depends part support from third-party software developers. The Company believes decisions customers purchase its hardware products depend part the availability third-party software applications and services. There assurance that third-party developers will continue develop and maintain software applications and services for the Company’ products. third-party software applications and services cease developed and maintained for the Company’ products, customers may choose not buy the Company’ products. With respect its Mac products, the Company believes the availability third-party software applications and services depends part the developers’ perception and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining and upgrading such software for the Company’ products compared Windows-based products. This analysis may based factors such the market position the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may generated, expected future growth Mac sales and the costs developing such applications and services. the Company’ minority share the global personal computer market causes developers question the Mac’ prospects, developers could less inclined develop upgrade software for the Company’ Mac products and more inclined devote their resources developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. With respect iOS devices, the Company relies the continued availability and development compelling and innovative software applications, including applications distributed through the App Store. iOS devices are subject rapid technological change, and, third-party developers are unable choose not keep with this pace change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result dissatisfied customers. with applications for the Company’ Mac products, the availability and development these applications also depend developers’ perceptions and analysis the relative benefits developing, maintaining upgrading software for the Company’ iOS devices rather than its competitors’ platforms, such Android. developers focus their efforts these competing platforms, the availability and quality applications for the Company’ iOS devices may suffer. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company relies access third-party intellectual property, which may not available the Company commercially reasonable terms all. Many the Company’ products include third-party intellectual property, which requires licenses from those third parties. Based past experience and industry practice, the Company believes such licenses generally can obtained reasonable terms. There , however, assurance that the necessary licenses can obtained acceptable terms all. Failure obtain the right use third-party intellectual property, use such intellectual property commercially reasonable terms, could preclude the Company from selling certain products otherwise have material adverse impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights. The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and have not yet been fully resolved, and new claims may arise the future. addition, agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which may subject the Company costs and damages the event claim against indemnified third party. Claims against the Company based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights have generally increased over time and may continue increase. particular, the Company has historically faced significant number patent claims relating its cellular-enabled products, and new claims may arise the future. For example, technology and other patent-holding companies frequently assert their patents and seek royalties and often enter into litigation based allegations patent infringement other violations intellectual property rights. The Company vigorously defending infringement actions courts number . jurisdictions and before the . International Trade Commission, well internationally various countries. The plaintiffs these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages. Regardless the merit particular claims, litigation may expensive, time-consuming, disruptive the Company’ operations and distracting management. recognition these considerations, the Company may enter into licensing agreements other arrangements settle litigation and resolve such disputes. assurance can given that such agreements can obtained acceptable terms that litigation will not occur. These agreements may also significantly increase the Company’ operating expenses. management’ opinion, there not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies, including matters related infringement intellectual property rights. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more legal matters were resolved against the Company indemnified third party reporting period for amounts excess management’ expectations, the Company’ consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome could result significant compensatory, punitive trebled monetary damages, disgorgement revenue profits, remedial corporate measures injunctive relief against the Company that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types claims, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. The Company subject laws and regulations worldwide, changes which could increase the Company’ costs and individually the aggregate adversely affect the Company’ business. The Company subject laws and regulations affecting its domestic and international operations number areas. These . and foreign laws and regulations affect the Company’ activities including, but not limited , areas labor, advertising, digital content, consumer protection, real estate, billing, -commerce, promotions, quality services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, television, intellectual property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety. way example, laws and regulations related mobile communications and media devices the many jurisdictions which the Company operates are extensive and subject change. Such changes could include, among others, restrictions the production, manufacture, distribution and use devices, locking devices carrier’ network, mandating the use devices more than one carrier’ network. These devices are also subject certification and regulation governmental and standardization bodies, well cellular network carriers for use their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result additional testing requirements, product modifications, delays product shipment dates, could preclude the Company from selling certain products. Apple Inc. | Form - | Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may onerous and expensive, and they may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction, further increasing the cost compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise the future result changes these laws and regulations their interpretation, could individually the aggregate make the Company’ products and services less attractive the Company’ customers, delay the introduction new products one more regions, cause the Company change limit its business practices. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can assurance that the Company’ employees, contractors, agents will not violate such laws and regulations the Company’ policies and procedures. The Company’ business subject the risks international operations. The Company derives significant portion its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with applicable . and foreign laws and regulations, such import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs doing business foreign jurisdictions. Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures comply with these laws and regulations, violation the Company’ employees, contractors agents could nevertheless occur. some cases, compliance with the laws and regulations one country could violate the laws and regulations another country. Violations these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect the Company’ brand, international growth efforts and business. The Company also could significantly affected other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited , economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs and political instability. Margins sales the Company’ products foreign countries, and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. The Company also exposed credit and collectability risk its trade receivables with customers certain international markets. There can assurance the Company can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company’ retail stores have required and will continue require substantial investment and commitment resources and are subject numerous risks and uncertainties. The Company’ retail stores have required substantial investment equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built serve high-profile venues promote brand awareness and serve vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company’ more typical retail stores. Due the high cost structure associated with the Company’ retail stores, decline sales the closure poor performance individual multiple stores could result significant lease termination costs, write-offs equipment and leasehold improvements and severance costs. Many factors unique retail operations, some which are beyond the Company’ control, pose risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited , macro-economic factors that could have adverse effect general retail activity, well the Company’ inability manage costs associated with store construction and operation, the Company’ failure manage relationships with its existing retail partners, more challenging environments managing retail operations outside the ., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations the value retail inventory, and the Company’ inability obtain and renew leases quality retail locations reasonable cost. Investment new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt the Company’ ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has invested, and the future may invest, new business strategies acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction management from current operations, greater than expected liabilities and expenses, inadequate return capital and unidentified issues not discovered the Company’ due diligence. These new ventures are inherently risky and may not successful. The Company’ business and reputation may impacted information technology system failures network disruptions. The Company may subject information technology system failures network disruptions caused natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts terrorism war, computer viruses, physical electronic break-ins, other events disruptions. System redundancy and other continuity measures may ineffective inadequate, and the Company’ business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures disruptions could adversely impact the Company’ business , among other things, preventing access the Company’ online services, interfering with customer transactions impeding the manufacturing and shipping the Company’ products. These events could materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | Form - | There may losses unauthorized access releases confidential information, including personally identifiable information, that could subject the Company significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. The Company’ business requires use and store confidential information, including, among other things, personally identifiable information (“PII”) with respect the Company’ customers and employees. The Company devotes significant resources network and data security, including through the use encryption and other security measures intended protect its systems and data. But these measures cannot provide absolute security, and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information may still occur, which could materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. The Company’ business also requires share confidential information with suppliers and other third parties. Although the Company takes steps secure confidential information that provided third parties, such measures may not effective and losses unauthorized access releases confidential information may still occur, which could materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. For example, the Company may experience security breach impacting the Company’ information technology systems that compromises the confidentiality, integrity availability confidential information. Such incident could, among other things, impair the Company’ ability attract and retain customers for its products and services, impact the Company’ stock price, materially damage supplier relationships, and expose the Company litigation government investigations, which could result penalties, fines judgments against the Company. Although malicious attacks perpetrated gain access confidential information, including PII, affect many companies across various industries, the Company relatively greater risk being targeted because its high profile and the value the confidential information creates, owns, manages, stores and processes. The Company has implemented systems and processes intended secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access loss sensitive data, including through the use encryption and authentication technologies. with all companies, these security measures may not sufficient for all eventualities and may vulnerable hacking, employee error, malfeasance, system error, faulty password management other irregularities. For example, third parties may attempt fraudulently induce employees customers into disclosing user names, passwords other sensitive information, which may turn used access the Company’ information technology systems. help protect customers and the Company, the Company monitors its services and systems for unusual activity and may freeze accounts under suspicious circumstances, which, among other things, may result the delay loss customer orders impede customer access the Company’ products and services. addition the risks relating general confidential information described above, the Company may also subject specific obligations relating health data and payment card data. Health data may subject additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company may subject audit governmental authorities regarding the Company’ compliance with these obligations. the Company fails adequately comply with these rules and requirements, health data handled manner not permitted law under the Company’ agreements with healthcare institutions, the Company could subject litigation government investigations, may liable for associated investigatory expenses, and could also incur significant fees fines. Under payment card rules and obligations, cardholder information potentially compromised, the Company could liable for associated investigatory expenses and could also incur significant fees fines the Company fails follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience significant increase payment card transaction costs lose the ability process payment cards fails follow payment card industry data security standards, which would materially adversely affect the Company’ reputation, financial condition and operating results. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that intended address certain aspects data security risks, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. The Company’ business subject variety . and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company subject federal, state and international laws relating the collection, use, retention, security and transfer PII. many cases, these laws apply not only third-party transactions, but also may restrict transfers PII among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue develop and may inconsistent from jurisdiction jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause the Company incur substantial costs require the Company change its business practices. Noncompliance could result significant penalties legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure PII through its privacy policy, information provided its website and press statements. Any failure the Company comply with these public statements with other federal, state international privacy-related data protection laws and regulations could result proceedings against the Company governmental entities others. addition reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ success depends largely the continued service and availability key personnel. Much the Company’ future success depends the continued availability and service key personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, executive team and other highly skilled employees. Experienced personnel the technology industry are high demand and competition for their talents intense, especially Silicon Valley, where most the Company’ key personnel are located. The Company’ business may impacted political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage disruption international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have material adverse effect the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company’ business operations are subject interruption , among others, natural disasters, whether result climate change otherwise, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company’ products, make difficult impossible for the Company make and deliver products its customers, including channel partners, receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies the Company’ supply chain. While the Company’ suppliers are required maintain safe working environments and operations, industrial accident could occur and could result disruption the Company’ business and harm the Company’ reputation. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could adversely affected more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement products between regions, delays production ramps new products and disruptions the operations the Company’ manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority the Company’ & activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are locations that could affected natural disasters. the event natural disaster, the Company could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures order resume operations. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate. The Company’ profit margins vary across its products and distribution channels. The Company’ software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain the Company’ other products. Gross margins the Company’ hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time result product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company’ direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. addition, the Company’ gross margin and operating margin percentages, well overall profitability, may materially adversely impacted result shift product, geographic channel mix, component cost increases, the strengthening . dollar, price competition, the introduction new products, including those that have higher cost structures with flat reduced pricing. The Company has typically experienced higher net sales its first quarter compared other quarters due part seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates majority its net sales from single product and decline demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also subject unexpected developments late quarter, such lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’ products, issues with new product introductions, internal systems failure, failure one the Company’ logistics, components supply, manufacturing partners. The Company’ stock price subject volatility. The Company’ stock price has experienced substantial price volatility the past and may continue the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market whole have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices ways that may have been unrelated these companies’ operating performance. Price volatility over given period may cause the average price which the Company repurchases its own stock exceed the stock’ price given point time. The Company believes its stock price should reflect expectations future growth and profitability. The Company also believes its stock price should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue current levels grow and that its current share repurchase program will fully consummated. Future dividends are subject declaration the Company’ Board Directors, and the Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. the Company fails meet expectations related future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases other market expectations, its stock price may decline significantly, which could have material adverse impact investor confidence and employee retention. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ financial performance subject risks associated with changes the value the . dollar versus local currencies. The Company’ primary exposure movements foreign currency exchange rates relates non- . dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening foreign currencies relative the . dollar adversely affects the . dollar value the Company’ foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’ products. Margins sales the Company’ products foreign countries and sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could materially adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. some circumstances, for competitive other reasons, the Company may decide not raise local prices fully offset the dollar’ strengthening, all, which would adversely affect the . dollar value the Company’ foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, strengthening foreign currencies relative the . dollar, while generally beneficial the Company’ foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company reduce international pricing and incur losses its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening foreign currencies may increase the Company’ cost product components denominated those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such foreign currency forward and option contracts, hedge certain exposures fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. The use such hedging activities may not offset any, more than portion, the adverse financial effects unfavorable movements foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are place. The Company exposed credit risk and fluctuations the market values its investment portfolio. Given the global nature its business, the Company has both domestic and international investments. Credit ratings and pricing the Company’ investments can negatively affected liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk other factors. result, the value and liquidity the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, future fluctuations their value could result significant realized losses. The Company exposed credit risk its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements, and this risk heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. The Company also sells its products directly small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. substantial majority the Company’ outstanding trade receivables are not covered collateral, third-party financing arrangements credit insurance. The Company’ exposure credit and collectability risk its trade receivables higher certain international markets and its ability mitigate such risks may limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases components outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. September , , significant portion the Company’ trade receivables was concentrated within cellular network carriers, and its vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related long-term supply agreements were concentrated among few individual vendors located primarily Asia. While the Company has procedures monitor and limit exposure credit risk its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, well long-term prepayments, there can assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company could subject changes its tax rates, the adoption new . international tax legislation exposure additional tax liabilities. The Company subject taxes the . and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where number the Company’ subsidiaries are organized. Due economic and political conditions, tax rates various jurisdictions may subject significant change. The Company’ effective tax rates could affected changes the mix earnings countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes the valuation deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes tax laws their interpretation, including the . and Ireland. The Company also subject the examination its tax returns and other tax matters the . Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood adverse outcome resulting from these examinations determine the adequacy its provision for taxes. There can assurance the outcome these examinations. the Company’ effective tax rates were increase, particularly the . Ireland, the ultimate determination the Company’ taxes owed for amount excess amounts previously accrued, the Company’ financial condition, operating results and cash flows could adversely affected. ', 'item 1b. ': 'Unresolved Staff Comments None. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company’ headquarters are located Cupertino, California. September , , the Company owned million square feet and leased million square feet building space, primarily the . Additionally, the Company owned total , acres land, primarily the . September , , the Company owned facilities and land for corporate functions, & and data centers various locations throughout the . Outside the ., the Company owned additional facilities and land for various purposes. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used all operating segments, are good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct its business. The Company has invested internal capacity and strategic relationships with outside manufacturing vendors and continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings The Company subject legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen the ordinary course business. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management’ expectations, the Company’ consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. See the risk factor “ The Company could impacted unfavorable results legal proceedings, such being found have infringed intellectual property rights ” Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors.” The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter that did not individually the aggregate have material impact the Company’ financial condition operating results. ', 'item 4. ': 'Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for Registrant’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Equity Securities The Company’ common stock traded the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) under the symbol AAPL. Price Range Common Stock The price range per share common stock presented below represents the highest and lowest intraday sales prices for the Company’ common stock the Nasdaq during each quarter the two most recent years. Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter price range per share $ – $ $ – $ $ – $ $ – $ price range per share $ – $ $ – $ $ – $ $ – $ Holders October , , there were , shareholders record. Dividends The Company paid total $ billion and $ billion dividends during and , respectively, and expects pay quarterly dividends $ per common share each quarter, subject declaration the Board Directors. The Company also plans increase its dividend annual basis, subject declaration the Board Directors. Apple Inc. | Form - | Purchases Equity Securities the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September , was follows ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number Shares Purchased Part Publicly Announced Plans Programs Approximate Dollar Value Shares That May Yet Purchased Under the Plans Programs ( ) July , August , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , August , September , : May ASR , ( ) , August ASR , ( ) ( ) , ( ) Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , September , September , : Open market and privately negotiated purchases , $ , Total , $ , ( ) May , the Company’ Board Directors increased the Company’ share repurchase authorization from $ billion $ billion the Company’ common stock, which $ billion had been utilized September , . The remaining $ billion the table represents the amount available repurchase shares under the authorized repurchase program September , . The Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. ( ) May , the Company entered into accelerated share repurchase arrangement (“ASR”) purchase $ billion the Company’ common stock. August , the purchase period for this ASR ended and additional million shares were delivered and retired. total, million shares were delivered under this ASR average repurchase price $ . ( ) August , the Company entered into new ASR purchase $ billion the Company’ common stock. exchange for -front payment $ billion , the financial institution party the arrangement committed deliver shares the Company during the ASR’ purchase period, which will end November . The total number shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average price paid per share, will determined the end the applicable purchase period based the volume-weighted average price the Company’ common stock during that period. Apple Inc. | Form - | Company Stock Performance The following graph shows comparison cumulative total shareholder return, calculated dividend reinvested basis, for the Company, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September , . The graph assumes $ was invested each the Company’ common stock, the & Index, the & Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index the market close September , . Note that historic stock price performance not necessarily indicative future stock price performance. * $ invested stock index, including reinvestment dividends. Data points are the last day each fiscal year for the Company’ common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright © & , division McGraw Hill Financial. All rights reserved. Copyright © Dow Jones & . All rights reserved. September September September September September September Apple Inc. $ $ $ $ $ $ & Index $ $ $ $ $ $ & Information Technology Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Dow Jones . Technology Supersector Index $ $ $ $ $ $ Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The information set forth below for the five years ended September , , not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with Part , Item , “Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included Part , Item this Form - fully understand factors that may affect the comparability the information presented below ( millions, except number shares, which are reflected thousands, and per share amounts). Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , , , , , Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total assets $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Commercial paper $ , $ , $ , $ , $ — Total term debt ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Other long-term obligations ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Total shareholders’ equity $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes current and long-term portion term debt. ( ) Excludes non-current deferred revenue. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7. ': 'Management’ Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations This section and other parts this Annual Report Form - (“Form - ”) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act , that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations future events based certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate any historical current fact. Forward-looking statements can also identified words such “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees future performance and the Company’ actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited , those discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein reference. The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included Part , Item this Form - . All information presented herein based the Company’ fiscal calendar. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months periods refer the Company’ fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Each the terms the “Company” and “Apple” used herein refers collectively Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The Company assumes obligation revise update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except required law. Overview and Highlights The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells variety related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company’ products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Apple , portfolio consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS operating systems, iCloud, Apple Pay and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music (collectively “Digital Content and Services”). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. Fiscal Period The Company’ fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company’ fiscal year included weeks and ended September , . 14th week was included the first quarter , done every five six years, realign the Company’ fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. The Company’ fiscal years and ended September , and September , , respectively, and spanned weeks each. Fiscal Highlights Net sales increased % $ billion during compared , primarily driven growth Services, iPhone and Mac. The year-over-year increase net sales reflected growth each the geographic operating segments, with the exception Greater China. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact net sales during compared . May , the Company announced increase its capital return program raising the expected total size the program from $ billion $ billion through March . This included increasing its share repurchase authorization from $ billion $ billion and raising its quarterly dividend from $ $ per share beginning May . During , the Company spent $ billion repurchase shares its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion . Additionally, the Company issued $ billion . dollar-denominated term debt, € billion euro-denominated term debt and $ billion Canadian dollar-denominated term debt during . Fiscal Highlights Net sales declined % $ billion during compared , primarily driven year-over-year decrease iPhone net sales and the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar, partially offset increase Services. April , the Company announced increase its capital return program raising the expected total size the program from $ billion $ billion through March . This included increasing its share repurchase authorization from $ billion $ billion and raising its quarterly dividend from $ $ per share beginning May . During , the Company spent $ billion repurchase shares its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion. Additionally, the Company issued $ billion . dollar-denominated term debt and $ billion Australian dollar-denominated term debt during . Apple Inc. | Form - | Sales Data The following table shows net sales operating segment and net sales and unit sales product for , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net Sales Operating Segment: Americas $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Europe , % , ( )% , Greater China , ( )% , ( )% , Japan , % , % , Rest Asia Pacific , % , ( )% , Total net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Net Sales Product: iPhone ( ) $ , % $ , ( )% $ , iPad ( ) , ( )% , ( )% , Mac ( ) , % , ( )% , Services ( ) , % , % , Other Products ( )( ) , % , % , Total net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Unit Sales Product: iPhone , % , ( )% , iPad , ( )% , ( )% , Mac , % , ( )% , ( ) Includes deferrals and amortization related software upgrade rights and non-software services. ( ) Includes revenue from Digital Content and Services, AppleCare, Apple Pay, licensing and other services. Services net sales the fourth quarter included favorable one-time adjustment $ million due change estimate based the availability additional supporting information. ( ) Includes sales Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. Apple Inc. | Form - | Product Performance iPhone The following table presents iPhone net sales and unit sales information for , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , % , ( )% , iPhone net sales increased during compared due higher iPhone unit sales and different mix iPhones with higher average selling prices. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact iPhone net sales during compared . iPhone net sales decreased during compared . The Company believes the sales decline was due primarily lower rate iPhone upgrades during compared and challenging macroeconomic conditions number major markets . Average selling prices for iPhone were lower year-over-year during due primarily different mix iPhones, including the iPhone introduced , and the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar. iPad The following table presents iPad net sales and unit sales information for , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , ( )% , ( )% , iPad net sales decreased during compared due lower iPad unit sales and different mix iPads with lower average selling prices. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact iPad net sales during compared . iPad net sales decreased during compared primarily due lower unit sales and the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar, partially offset higher average selling price due shift mix higher-priced iPads. Mac The following table presents Mac net sales and unit sales information for , and (dollars millions and units thousands): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Unit sales , % , ( )% , Mac net sales increased during compared due primarily different mix Macs with higher average selling prices and higher Mac unit sales. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact Mac net sales during compared . Mac net sales decreased during compared primarily due lower year-over-year Mac unit sales, which declined rates similar the overall market. The effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar also negatively impacted Mac net sales. Apple Inc. | Form - | Services The following table presents Services net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The year-over-year growth Services net sales was due primarily increases App Store and licensing sales. Services net sales the fourth quarter included favorable one-time adjustment $ million due change estimate based the availability additional supporting information. The year-over-year increase Services net sales was due primarily growth from the App Store, licensing and AppleCare sales, partially offset the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar. During the first quarter , the Company received $ million from Samsung Electronics ., Ltd. related its patent infringement lawsuit, which was recorded licensing net sales within Services. Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company’ reportable segments can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Segment Information and Geographic Data.” Americas The following table presents Americas net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Americas net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, Services and Mac. Americas net sales decreased during compared due primarily lower net sales iPhone. Europe The following table presents Europe net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Europe net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone and Services. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact Europe net sales during compared . Europe net sales decreased during compared driven primarily the effect weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar and decrease net sales Mac, largely offset increase iPhone unit sales and Services. Apple Inc. | Form - | Greater China The following table presents Greater China net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , ( )% $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Greater China net sales decreased during compared due primarily lower net sales iPhone, partially offset higher net sales Services. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact Greater China net sales during compared . Greater China net sales decreased during compared due primarily lower net sales iPhone and the effect weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Japan The following table presents Japan net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % The year-over-year increase Japan net sales and was due primarily higher net sales Services and the strength the Japanese yen relative the . dollar. Rest Asia Pacific The following table presents Rest Asia Pacific net sales information for , and (dollars millions): Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Rest Asia Pacific net sales increased during compared due primarily higher net sales iPhone, Services and Mac. The strength foreign currencies relative the . dollar had favorable impact Rest Asia Pacific net sales during compared . Rest Asia Pacific net sales decreased during compared due primarily lower net sales iPhone and the effect weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar. Gross Margin Gross margin for , and was follows (dollars millions): Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , Gross margin percentage % % % Gross margin percentage decreased compared due primarily higher product costs, partially offset favorable shift mix services. Year-over-year gross margin increased due primarily shift mix services and overall increase product volumes. The weakness foreign currencies relative the . dollar had unfavorable impact gross margin percentage and gross margin during compared . Gross margin percentage decreased compared due primarily the effect weakness most foreign currencies relative the . dollar and, lesser extent, unfavorable leverage fixed costs from lower net sales, partially offset favorable shift mix services. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company anticipates gross margin percentage during the first quarter between % and %. The foregoing statement regarding the Company’ expected gross margin percentage the first quarter forward-looking and could differ from actual results. The Company’ future gross margins can impacted multiple factors including, but not limited , those set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors” and those described this paragraph. general, the Company believes gross margins will remain under downward pressure due variety factors, including continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, product transitions, potential increases the cost components, and potential strengthening the . dollar, well potential increases the costs outside manufacturing services and potential shift the Company’ sales mix towards products with lower gross margins. response competitive pressures, the Company expects will continue take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins. Gross margins could also affected the Company’ ability manage product quality and warranty costs effectively and stimulate demand for certain its products. Due the Company’ significant international operations, its financial condition and operating results, including gross margins, could significantly affected fluctuations exchange rates. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for , and were follows (dollars millions): Change Change Research and development $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative $ , % $ , ( )% $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Total operating expenses $ , % $ , % $ , Percentage total net sales % % % Research and Development The year-over-year growth & expense and was driven primarily increases headcount-related expenses and material costs support expanded & activities. The Company continues believe that focused investments & are critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace, and the development new and updated products and services that are central the Company’ core business strategy. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth selling, general and administrative expense compared was driven primarily increase headcount-related expenses, variable selling expenses and infrastructure-related costs. The decrease selling, general and administrative expense compared was due primarily lower discretionary expenditures and advertising costs, partially offset increase headcount-related expenses. Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net for , and was follows (dollars millions): Change Change Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other expense, net ( ) ( , ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , % $ , % $ , The year-over-year increase other income/(expense), net during was due primarily higher interest income and the favorable impact foreign exchange-related items, partially offset higher interest expense debt. The year-over-year increase other income/(expense), net during was due primarily higher interest income, partially offset higher interest expense debt and the unfavorable impact foreign exchange-related items. The weighted-average interest rate earned the Company its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was %, % and % , and , respectively. Apple Inc. | Form - | Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for , and were follows (dollars millions): Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company’ effective tax rates for , and differ from the statutory federal income tax rate % due primarily certain undistributed foreign earnings, substantial portion which was generated subsidiaries organized Ireland, for which . taxes are provided when such earnings are intended indefinitely reinvested outside the . The lower effective tax rate compared was due different geographic mix earnings and higher . & tax credits. The lower effective tax rate compared was due primarily greater & tax credits. September , , the Company had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses and tax credits $ billion and deferred tax liabilities $ billion . Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the deferred tax assets. The Company will continue evaluate the realizability deferred tax assets quarterly assessing the need for and the amount valuation allowance. The IRS concluded its review the years through during the third quarter . All years prior are closed, and the IRS currently examining the years through . The Company also subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. Management believes that adequate provisions have been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company’ tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with management’ expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. August , , the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid the Company providing tax opinions and concerning the tax allocation profits the Irish branches two subsidiaries the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision orders Ireland calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June through December . Irish legislative changes, effective January , eliminated the application the tax opinions from that date forward. The Company believes the State Aid Decision without merit and appealed the General Court the Court Justice the European Union. Ireland has also appealed the State Aid Decision. Although Ireland still computing the recovery amount, the Company expects the amount line with the European Commission’ announced recovery amount € billion , plus interest € billion . Once the recovery amount finalized Ireland, the Company anticipates funding , including interest, out foreign cash. These amounts are expected placed into escrow , where they will remain pending conclusion all appeals. The Company believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related the State Aid Decision would creditable against . taxes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Hedging August , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) . - , Derivatives and Hedging (Topic ): Targeted Improvements Accounting for Hedging Activities (“ASU - ”). ASU - expands component and fair value hedging, specifies the presentation the effects hedging instruments, and eliminates the separate measurement and presentation hedge ineffectiveness. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the modified retrospective transition method and currently evaluating the impact adoption its consolidated financial statements. Restricted Cash November , the FASB issued ASU . - , Statement Cash Flows (Topic ): Restricted Cash (“ASU - ”), which enhances and clarifies the guidance the classification and presentation restricted cash the statement cash flows. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the retrospective transition method. Currently, the Company’ restricted cash balance not significant. Apple Inc. | Form - | Income Taxes October , the FASB issued ASU . - , Income Taxes (Topic ): Intra-Entity Transfers Assets Other Than Inventory (“ASU - ”), which requires the recognition the income tax consequences intra-entity transfer asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Currently, the Company anticipates recording $ billion net deferred tax assets its Consolidated Balance Sheets upon adoption. However, the ultimate impact adopting ASU - will depend the balance intellectual property transferred between its subsidiaries the adoption date. The Company will recognize incremental deferred income tax expense thereafter these deferred tax assets are utilized. Stock Compensation March , the FASB issued ASU . - , Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic ): Improvements Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (“ASU - ”), which modifies certain aspects the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income taxes, classification awards, and classification the statement cash flows. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter . Currently, excess tax benefits deficiencies from the Company’ equity awards are recorded additional paid- capital its Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon adoption, the Company will record any excess tax benefits deficiencies from its equity awards its Consolidated Statements Operations the reporting periods which vesting occurs. result, subsequent adoption the Company’ income tax expense and associated effective tax rate will impacted fluctuations stock price between the grant dates and vesting dates equity awards. Leases February , the FASB issued ASU . - , Leases (Topic ) (“ASU - ”), which modifies lease accounting for lessees increase transparency and comparability recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. While the Company currently evaluating the timing and impact adopting ASU - , currently the Company anticipates recording lease assets and liabilities excess $ billion its Consolidated Balance Sheets, with material impact its Consolidated Statements Operations. However, the ultimate impact adopting ASU - will depend the Company’ lease portfolio the adoption date. Financial Instruments January , the FASB issued ASU . - , Financial Instruments – Overall (Subtopic - ): Recognition and Measurement Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“ASU - ”), which updates certain aspects recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure financial instruments. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Based the composition the Company’ investment portfolio, the adoption ASU - not expected have material impact its consolidated financial statements. June , the FASB issued ASU . - , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic ): Measurement Credit Losses Financial Instruments (“ASU - ”), which modifies the measurement expected credit losses certain financial instruments. The Company will adopt ASU - its first quarter utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Based the composition the Company’ investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption ASU - not expected have material impact its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition May , the FASB issued ASU . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ) (“ASU - ”), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU - based principles that govern the recognition revenue amount entity expects entitled when products are transferred customers. Subsequently, the FASB has issued the following standards related ASU - : ASU . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ): Principal versus Agent Considerations (“ASU - ”); ASU . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing (“ASU - ”); ASU . - , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic ): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients (“ASU - ”); and ASU . - , Technical Corrections and Improvements Topic , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASU - ”). The Company must adopt ASU - , ASU - , ASU - and ASU - with ASU - (collectively, the “new revenue standards”). The new revenue standards may applied retrospectively each prior period presented retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized the date adoption. The Company will adopt the new revenue standards its first quarter utilizing the full retrospective transition method. The new revenue standards are not expected have material impact the amount and timing revenue recognized the Company’ consolidated financial statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table presents selected financial information and statistics and for the years ended September , , September , and September , ( millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ , $ , $ , Property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , $ , Commercial paper $ , $ , $ , Total term debt $ , $ , $ , Working capital $ , $ , $ , Cash generated operating activities $ , $ , $ , Cash used investing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Cash used financing activities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) The Company believes its existing balances cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will sufficient satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next months. The Company currently anticipates the cash used for future dividends, the share repurchase program and debt repayments will come from its current domestic cash, cash generated from ongoing . operating activities and from borrowings. September , and September , , the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held foreign subsidiaries were $ billion and $ billion , respectively, and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . connection with the State Aid Decision, Ireland still computing the recovery amount. The Company expects the amount line with the European Commission’ announced recovery amount € billion , plus interest € billion . Once the recovery amount finalized Ireland, the Company anticipates funding , including interest, out foreign cash. These amounts are expected placed into escrow , where they will remain pending conclusion all appeals. The Company’ marketable securities investment portfolio primarily invested highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy generally requires investments investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. During , cash generated operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income, non-cash adjustments net income $ billion and decrease the net change operating assets and liabilities $ billion , which included one-time payment $ billion related multi-year license agreement. Cash used investing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used for purchases marketable securities, net sales and maturities, $ billion and cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion . Cash used financing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used repurchase common stock $ billion , cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion and cash used repay term debt $ billion , partially offset proceeds from the issuance term debt, net $ billion and proceeds from commercial paper, net $ billion . During , cash generated operating activities $ billion was result $ billion net income and non-cash adjustments net income $ billion . Cash used investing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used for purchases marketable securities, net sales and maturities, $ billion and cash used acquire property, plant and equipment $ billion . Cash used financing activities $ billion during consisted primarily cash used repurchase common stock $ billion , cash used pay dividends and dividend equivalents $ billion and cash used repay term debt $ billion , partially offset proceeds from the issuance term debt, net $ billion . Capital Assets The Company’ capital expenditures were $ billion during . The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $ billion for capital expenditures during , which includes product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; data centers; corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements; and retail store facilities. Debt The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company uses the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , , the Company had $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, with weighted-average interest rate % and maturities generally less than nine months . Apple Inc. | Form - | September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the “Notes”). During , the Company repaid $ billion its Notes upon maturity. The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk the Notes. addition, the Company has entered, and the future may enter, into foreign currency swaps manage foreign currency risk the Notes. The future principal payments for the Company’ Notes September , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total term debt $ , Further information regarding the Company’ debt issuances and related hedging activity can found Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Financial Instruments” and Note , “Debt.” Capital Return Program May , the Company’ Board Directors increased the total capital return program from $ billion $ billion , which included increase the share repurchase authorization from $ billion $ billion the Company’ common stock. Additionally, the Company announced that the Board Directors raised the Company’ quarterly cash dividend from $ $ per share, beginning with the dividend paid during the third quarter . The Company intends increase its dividend annual basis, subject declaration the Board Directors. September , , $ billion the share repurchase program had been utilized. The Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Exchange Act. The following table presents the Company’ dividends, dividend equivalents, share repurchases and net share settlement activity from the start the capital return program August through September , ( millions): Dividends and Dividend Equivalents Paid Accelerated Share Repurchases Open Market Share Repurchases Taxes Related Settlement Equity Awards Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , — — , Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , The Company expects execute its capital return program the end March paying dividends and dividend equivalents, repurchasing shares and remitting withheld taxes related net share settlement restricted stock units. The Company plans continue access the domestic and international debt markets assist funding its capital return program. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations The Company has not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby the Company has financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, other contingent arrangements that expose the Company material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, any other obligation under variable interest unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, credit risk support the Company, engages leasing, hedging, & services with the Company. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table presents certain payments due the Company September , , and excludes amounts already recorded the Consolidated Balance Sheet, except for term debt ( millions): Payments Due Less Than Year Payments Due - Years Payments Due - Years Payments Due More Than Years Total Term debt $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating leases , , , , , Manufacturing purchase obligations ( ) , , , — , Other purchase obligations , , , Total $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ) Represents amount expected paid under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, substantially all which noncancelable. Operating Leases September , , the Company’ total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion . The Company’ retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company’ products and perform final assembly and testing finished products. These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based demand information supplied the Company, which typically covers periods days . The Company also obtains individual components for its products from wide variety individual suppliers. September , , the Company expects pay $ billion under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, substantially all which noncancelable. Other Purchase Obligations The Company’ other purchase obligations consisted noncancelable obligations acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related advertising, licensing, & , internet and telecommunications services and other obligations. September , , the Company had other purchase obligations $ billion . The Company’ other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets consist primarily deferred tax liabilities, gross unrecognized tax benefits and the related gross interest and penalties. September , , the Company had deferred tax liabilities $ billion , gross unrecognized tax benefits $ billion and additional $ billion for gross interest and penalties. this time, the Company unable make reasonably reliable estimate the timing payments due uncertainties the timing tax audit outcomes; therefore, such amounts are not included the above contractual obligation table. Indemnification Agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which may subject the Company costs and damages the event claim against indemnified third party. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect indemnification third parties. The Company offers iPhone Upgrade Program, which available customers who purchase qualifying iPhone the ., the . and mainland China. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right trade that iPhone for specified amount when purchasing new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. The Company accounts for the trade- right guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net the fair value such right, with subsequent changes the guarantee liability recognized within revenue. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers the Company and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. While the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. Apple Inc. | Form - | Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation financial statements and related disclosures conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and the Company’ discussion and analysis its financial condition and operating results require the Company’ management make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported its consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies,” the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Part , Item this Form - describes the significant accounting policies and methods used the preparation the Company’ consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates historical experience and various other assumptions believes reasonable under the circumstances, the results which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and such differences may material. Management believes the Company’ critical accounting policies and estimates are those related revenue recognition, valuation and impairment marketable securities, inventory valuation, valuation manufacturing-related assets and estimation purchase commitment cancellation fees, warranty costs, income taxes, and legal and other contingencies. Management considers these policies critical because they are both important the portrayal the Company’ financial condition and operating results, and they require management make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. The Company’ senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Audit and Finance Committee the Company’ Board Directors. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, accessories, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title, risk loss and rewards ownership have been transferred. For most the Company’ product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. For payment terms excess the Company’ standard payment terms, revenue recognized payments become due unless the Company has positive evidence that the sales price fixed determinable, such successful history collection, without concession, comparable arrangements. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry-specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product’ functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product’ essential software and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (“VSOE”), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (“TPE”) and (iii) best estimate selling price (“ESP”). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company’ best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For sales qualifying versions iOS devices, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time time provide future unspecified software upgrades the device’ essential software and non-software services free charge. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for the unspecified software upgrade rights the non-software services, revenue allocated these rights and services based the Company’ ESPs. Revenue allocated the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services based the Company’ ESPs deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided. The Company’ process for determining ESPs involves management’ judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable. Should future facts and circumstances change, the Company’ ESPs and the future rate related amortization for unspecified software upgrades and non-software services related future sales these devices could change. Factors subject change include the unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services offered, the estimated value unspecified software upgrade rights and non-software services and the estimated period unspecified software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded, provided the refund amount can reasonably and reliably estimated and the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. The Company’ policy requires that, refunds cannot reliably estimated, revenue not recognized until reliable estimates can made the price protection lapses. For the Company’ other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company’ historical experience. Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company increase customer incentive programs that could result reductions future revenue. Additionally, certain customer incentive programs require management estimate the number customers who will actually redeem the incentive. Management’ estimates are based historical experience and the specific terms and conditions particular incentive programs. greater than estimated proportion customers redeems such incentives, the Company would required record additional reductions revenue, which would have adverse impact the Company’ operating results. Valuation and Impairment Marketable Securities The Company’ investments available-for-sale securities are reported fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related changes the fair value securities are recognized accumulated other comprehensive income, net tax, the Company’ Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes the fair value available-for-sale securities impact the Company’ net income only when such securities are sold other-than-temporary impairment recognized. Realized gains and losses the sale securities are determined specific identification each security’ cost basis. The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio determine any security other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company record impairment charge the period any such determination made. making this determination, the Company evaluates, among other things, the duration and extent which the fair value security less than its cost; the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto; and the Company’ intent sell, whether will more likely than not required sell, the security before recovery its amortized cost basis. The Company’ assessment whether security other-than-temporarily impaired could change the future due new developments changes assumptions related any particular security, which would have adverse impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Inventory Valuation, Valuation Manufacturing-Related Assets and Estimation Purchase Commitment Cancellation Fees The Company must purchase components and build inventory advance product shipments and has invested manufacturing-related assets, including capital assets held its suppliers’ facilities. addition, the Company has made prepayments certain its suppliers associated with long-term supply agreements secure supply inventory components. The Company records write-down for inventories components and products, including third-party products held for resale, which have become obsolete are excess anticipated demand net realizable value. The Company performs regular review inventory that considers multiple factors including demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels and component cost trends. The Company also reviews its manufacturing-related capital assets and inventory prepayments for impairment whenever events circumstances indicate the carrying amount such assets may not recoverable. the Company determines that asset not recoverable, records impairment loss equal the amount which the carrying value such asset exceeds its fair value. The industries which the Company competes are subject rapid and unpredictable pace product and component obsolescence and demand changes. certain circumstances the Company may required record additional write-downs inventory and impairments manufacturing-related assets inventory prepayments. These circumstances include future demand market conditions for the Company’ products being less favorable than forecasted, unforeseen technological changes changes the Company’ product development plans that negatively impact the utility any these assets, significant deterioration the financial condition one more the Company’ suppliers that hold any the Company’ manufacturing-related assets whom the Company has made inventory prepayment. Such write-downs would adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results the period when the additional write-downs were recorded. The Company accrues for estimated purchase commitment cancellation fees related inventory orders that have been canceled are expected canceled. Manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover the Company’ forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods days . there abrupt and substantial decline demand for one more the Company’ products, change the Company’ product development plans, unanticipated change technological requirements for any the Company’ products, the Company may required record additional accruals for cancellation fees that would adversely affect its results operations the period when the cancellation fees were identified and recorded. Apple Inc. | Form - | Warranty Costs The Company accrues for the estimated cost warranties the period the related revenue recognized based historical and projected warranty claim rates, historical and projected cost per claim and knowledge specific product failures that are outside the Company’ typical experience. The Company regularly reviews these estimates and the current installed base products subject warranty protection assess the appropriateness its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary. actual product failure rates repair costs differ from estimates, revisions the estimated warranty liabilities could required and could materially affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Income Taxes The Company records tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences its reported operating results. The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets and liabilities are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only more likely than not that the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management believes more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may generated result certain tax planning strategies, together with future reversals existing taxable temporary differences, will sufficient fully recover the Company’ deferred tax assets. the event that the Company determines all part its net deferred tax assets are not realizable the future, the Company will record adjustment the valuation allowance that would charged earnings the period such determination made. addition, the calculation tax liabilities involves significant judgment estimating the impact uncertainties the application GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution these uncertainties manner inconsistent with management’ expectations could have material impact the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Legal Proceedings” and Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Commitments and Contingencies,” the Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that arise the ordinary course business. The Company records liability when probable that loss has been incurred and the amount reasonably estimable, the determination which requires significant judgment. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome legal proceedings and claims brought against the Company subject significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management’ expectations, the Company’ consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 7a. ': 'Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Given the effective horizons the Company’ risk management activities and the anticipatory nature the exposures, there can assurance these positions will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements either foreign exchange interest rates. Further, the recognition the gains and losses related these instruments may not coincide with the timing gains and losses related the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk The Company’ exposure changes interest rates relates primarily the Company’ investment portfolio and outstanding debt. While the Company exposed global interest rate fluctuations, the Company’ interest income and expense are most sensitive fluctuations . interest rates. Changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value those securities, well costs associated with hedging and interest paid the Company’ debt. The Company’ investment policy and strategy are focused preservation capital and supporting the Company’ liquidity requirements. The Company uses combination internal and external management execute its investment strategy and achieve its investment objectives. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy generally requires investments investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. provide meaningful assessment the interest rate risk associated with the Company’ investment portfolio, the Company performed sensitivity analysis determine the impact change interest rates would have the value the investment portfolio assuming basis point parallel shift the yield curve. Based investment positions September , and September , , hypothetical basis point increase interest rates across all maturities would result $ billion and $ billion incremental decline the fair market value the portfolio, respectively. Such losses would only realized the Company sold the investments prior maturity. September , and September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate carrying amount $ billion and $ billion , respectively. The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into interest rate swaps manage interest rate risk its outstanding term debt. Interest rate swaps allow the Company effectively convert fixed-rate payments into floating-rate payments floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments. Gains and losses term debt are generally offset the corresponding losses and gains the related hedging instrument. basis point increase market interest rates would cause interest expense the Company’ debt September , and September , increase $ million and $ million annualized basis, respectively. Further details regarding the Company’ debt provided Part , Item this Form - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note , “Debt.” Foreign Currency Risk general, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar. Accordingly, changes exchange rates, and particular strengthening the . dollar, will negatively affect the Company’ net sales and gross margins expressed . dollars. There risk that the Company will have adjust local currency product pricing due competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments foreign subsidiaries. addition, the Company has entered, and the future may enter, into foreign currency contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses its foreign-denominated debt issuances. The Company typically hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for variety reasons, including but not limited accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. Apple Inc. | Form - | provide meaningful assessment the foreign currency risk associated with certain the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed sensitivity analysis using value- -risk (“VAR”) model assess the potential impact fluctuations exchange rates. The VAR model consisted using Monte Carlo simulation generate thousands random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR the maximum expected loss fair value, for given confidence interval, the Company’ foreign currency derivative positions due adverse movements rates. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses but used risk estimation and management tool. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments and assets and liabilities denominated foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based the results the model, the Company estimates with % confidence, maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , compared maximum one-day loss fair value $ million September , . Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the loss fair value incurred those instruments are generally offset increases the fair value the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company’ investment portfolio and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed September , due the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount changes interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and the Company’ actual exposures and positions. Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OPERATIONS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and per share amounts) Years ended September , September , September , Net sales $ , $ , $ , Cost sales , , , Gross margin , , , Operating expenses: Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Other income/(expense), net , , , Income before provision for income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Shares used computing earnings per share: Basic , , , , , , Diluted , , , , , , Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Net income $ , $ , $ , Other comprehensive income/(loss): Change foreign currency translation, net tax effects $( ), $ and $ , respectively ( ) Change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments: Change fair value derivatives, net tax benefit/(expense) $( ), $( ) and $( ), respectively , , Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income, net tax expense/(benefit) $ , $ and $ , respectively ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Total change unrealized gains losses derivative instruments, net tax ( ) ( ) ( ) Change unrealized gains losses marketable securities: Change fair value marketable securities, net tax benefit/(expense) $ , $( ) and $ , respectively ( ) , ( ) Adjustment for net (gains)/losses realized and included net income, net tax expense/(benefit) $ , $( ) and $( ), respectively ( ) Total change unrealized gains losses marketable securities, net tax ( ) , ( ) Total other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( , ) Total comprehensive income $ , $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands and par value) September , September , ASSETS: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , Short-term marketable securities , , Accounts receivable, less allowances $ and $ , respectively , , Inventories , , Vendor non-trade receivables , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , Long-term marketable securities , , Property, plant and equipment, net , , Goodwill , , Acquired intangible assets, net , , Other non-current assets , , Total assets $ , $ , LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued expenses , , Deferred revenue , , Commercial paper , , Current portion long-term debt , , Total current liabilities , , Deferred revenue, non-current , , Long-term debt , , Other non-current liabilities , , Total liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders’ equity: Common stock and additional paid- capital, $ par value: , , shares authorized; , , and , , shares issued and outstanding, respectively , , Retained earnings , , Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) Total shareholders’ equity , , Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ , $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY ( millions, except number shares which are reflected thousands) Common Stock and Additional Paid- Capital Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) Total Shareholders’ Equity Shares Amount Balances September , , , $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income — — , — , Other comprehensive income/(loss) — — — ( , ) ( , ) Dividends and dividend equivalents declared — — ( , ) — ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) — ( , ) — ( , ) Share-based compensation — , — — , Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) — ( ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments — — — Balances September , , , , , ( ) , Net income — — , — , Other comprehensive income/(loss) — — — Dividends and dividend equivalents declared — — ( , ) — ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) — ( , ) — ( , ) Share-based compensation — , — — , Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) — ( , ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments — — — Balances September , , , , , , Net income — — , — , Other comprehensive income/(loss) — — — ( ) ( ) Dividends and dividend equivalents declared — — ( , ) — ( , ) Repurchase common stock ( , ) — ( , ) — ( , ) Share-based compensation — , — — , Common stock issued, net shares withheld for employee taxes , ( ) ( ) — ( , ) Tax benefit from equity awards, including transfer pricing adjustments — — — Balances September , , , $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS ( millions) Years ended September , September , September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the year $ , $ , $ , Operating activities: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated operating activities: Depreciation and amortization , , , Share-based compensation expense , , , Deferred income tax expense , , , Other ( ) Changes operating assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable, net ( , ) Inventories ( , ) ( ) Vendor non-trade receivables ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Other current and non-current assets ( , ) , ( ) Accounts payable , , , Deferred revenue ( ) ( , ) , Other current and non-current liabilities ( ) ( , ) , Cash generated operating activities , , , Investing activities: Purchases marketable securities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from maturities marketable securities , , , Proceeds from sales marketable securities , , , Payments made connection with business acquisitions, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Payments for acquisition property, plant and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for acquisition intangible assets ( ) ( ) ( ) Payments for strategic investments, net ( ) ( , ) — Other ( ) ( ) Cash used investing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Financing activities: Proceeds from issuance common stock Excess tax benefits from equity awards Payments for taxes related net share settlement equity awards ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Payments for dividends and dividend equivalents ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Repurchases common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from issuance term debt, net , , , Repayments term debt ( , ) ( , ) — Change commercial paper, net , ( ) , Cash used financing activities ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Increase/(Decrease) cash and cash equivalents ( ) ( ) , Cash and cash equivalents, end the year $ , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosure: Cash paid for income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Cash paid for interest $ , $ , $ See accompanying Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Apple Inc. | Form - | Apple Inc. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Note – Summary Significant Accounting Policies Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively “Apple” the “Company”) designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells variety related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications. The Company’ products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Apple , portfolio consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS operating systems, iCloud, Apple Pay and variety accessory, service and support offerings. The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music (collectively “Digital Content and Services”). The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, well through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. addition, the Company sells variety third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores. The Company sells consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. Basis Presentation and Preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts the Company. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. the opinion the Company’ management, the consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are normal and recurring nature, necessary for fair financial statement presentation. The preparation these consolidated financial statements conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Certain prior period amounts the consolidated financial statements have been reclassified conform the current period’ presentation. The Company’ fiscal year the -week period that ends the last Saturday September. The Company’ fiscal year included weeks and ended September , . 14th week was included the first fiscal quarter , done every five six years, realign the Company’ fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. The Company’ fiscal years and ended September , and September , , respectively, and spanned weeks each. Unless otherwise stated, references particular years, quarters, months and periods refer the Company’ fiscal years ended September and the associated quarters, months and periods those fiscal years. Revenue Recognition Net sales consist primarily revenue from the sale hardware, software, digital content and applications, accessories, and service and support contracts. The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price fixed determinable and collection probable. Product considered delivered the customer once has been shipped and title, risk loss and rewards ownership have been transferred. For most the Company’ product sales, these criteria are met the time the product shipped. For online sales individuals, for some sales education customers the ., and for certain other sales, the Company defers revenue until the customer receives the product because the Company retains portion the risk loss these sales during transit. For payment terms excess the Company’ standard payment terms, revenue recognized payments become due unless the Company has positive evidence that the sales price fixed determinable, such successful history collection, without concession, comparable arrangements. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale hardware products, software bundled with hardware that essential the functionality the hardware and third-party digital content sold the iTunes Store accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue accordance with industry-specific software accounting guidance for the following types sales transactions: ( ) standalone sales software products, ( ) sales software upgrades and (iii) sales software bundled with hardware not essential the functionality the hardware. For the sale most third-party products, the Company recognizes revenue based the gross amount billed customers because the Company establishes its own pricing for such products, retains related inventory risk for physical products, the primary obligor the customer and assumes the credit risk for amounts billed its customers. For third-party applications sold through the App Store and Mac App Store and certain digital content sold through the iTunes Store, the Company does not determine the selling price the products and not the primary obligor the customer. Therefore, the Company accounts for such sales net basis recognizing net sales only the commission retains from each sale. The portion the gross amount billed customers that remitted the Company third-party app developers and certain digital content owners not reflected the Company’ Consolidated Statements Operations. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company records deferred revenue when receives payments advance the delivery products the performance services. This includes amounts that have been deferred for unspecified and specified software upgrade rights and non-software services that are attached hardware and software products. The Company sells gift cards redeemable its retail and online stores, and also sells gift cards redeemable iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, App Store and iBooks Store for the purchase digital content and software. The Company records deferred revenue upon the sale the card, which relieved upon redemption the card the customer. Revenue from AppleCare service and support contracts deferred and recognized over the service coverage periods. AppleCare service and support contracts typically include extended phone support, repair services, web-based support resources and diagnostic tools offered under the Company’ standard limited warranty. The Company records reductions revenue for estimated commitments related price protection and other customer incentive programs. For transactions involving price protection, the Company recognizes revenue net the estimated amount refunded. For the Company’ other customer incentive programs, the estimated cost these programs recognized the later the date which the Company has sold the product the date which the program offered. The Company also records reductions revenue for expected future product returns based the Company’ historical experience. Revenue recorded net taxes collected from customers that are remitted governmental authorities, with the collected taxes recorded current liabilities until remitted the relevant government authority. Revenue Recognition for Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables For multi-element arrangements that include hardware products containing software essential the hardware product’ functionality, undelivered software elements that relate the hardware product’ essential software, and undelivered non-software services, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based their relative selling prices. such circumstances, the Company uses hierarchy determine the selling price used for allocating revenue deliverables: ( ) vendor-specific objective evidence fair value (“VSOE”), ( ) third-party evidence selling price (“TPE”) and (iii) best estimate selling price (“ESP”). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and the price actually charged the Company for that deliverable. ESPs reflect the Company’ best estimates what the selling prices elements would they were sold regularly stand-alone basis. For multi-element arrangements accounted for accordance with industry-specific software accounting guidance, the Company allocates revenue all deliverables based the VSOE each element, and VSOE does not exist revenue recognized when elements lacking VSOE are delivered. For sales qualifying versions iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, Apple Watch and Apple , the Company has indicated may from time time provide future unspecified software upgrades the device’ essential software and non-software services free charge. The Company has identified three deliverables regularly included arrangements involving the sale these devices. The first deliverable, which represents the substantial portion the allocated sales price, the hardware and software essential the functionality the hardware device delivered the time sale. The second deliverable the embedded right included with qualifying devices receive, when-and- -available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating the product’ essential software. The third deliverable the non-software services provided qualifying devices. The Company allocates revenue between these deliverables using the relative selling price method. Because the Company has neither VSOE nor TPE for these deliverables, the allocation revenue based the Company’ ESPs. Revenue allocated the delivered hardware and the related essential software recognized the time sale, provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Revenue allocated the embedded unspecified software upgrade rights and the non-software services deferred and recognized straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected provided. Cost sales related delivered hardware and related essential software, including estimated warranty costs, are recognized the time sale. Costs incurred provide non-software services are recognized cost sales incurred, and engineering and sales and marketing costs are recognized operating expenses incurred. The Company’ process for determining its ESP for deliverables without VSOE TPE considers multiple factors that may vary depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related each deliverable including, where applicable, prices charged the Company and market trends the pricing for similar offerings, product-specific business objectives, estimated cost provide the non-software services and the relative ESP the upgrade rights and non-software services compared the total selling price the product. Shipping Costs Amounts billed customers related shipping and handling are classified revenue, and the Company’ shipping and handling costs are classified cost sales. Warranty Costs The Company generally provides for the estimated cost hardware and software warranties the period the related revenue recognized. The Company assesses the adequacy its accrued warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts necessary based actual experience and changes future estimates. Apple Inc. | Form - | Software Development Costs Research and development (“ & ”) costs are expensed incurred. Development costs computer software sold, leased, otherwise marketed are subject capitalization beginning when product’ technological feasibility has been established and ending when product available for general release customers. most instances, the Company’ products are released soon after technological feasibility has been established and result software development costs were expensed incurred. Advertising Costs Advertising costs are expensed incurred and included selling, general and administrative expenses. Share-based Compensation The Company recognizes expense related share-based payment transactions which receives employee services exchange for ( ) equity instruments the Company ( ) liabilities that are based the fair value the Company’ equity instruments that may settled the issuance such equity instruments. Share-based compensation expense for restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and restricted stock measured based the closing fair market value the Company’ common stock the date grant. The Company estimates forfeitures expected occur and recognizes share-based compensation expense for those equity awards expected vest. The Company recognizes share-based compensation expense over the award’ requisite service period straight-line basis for time-based RSUs and graded basis for RSUs that are contingent the achievement performance conditions. The Company recognizes benefit from share-based compensation the Consolidated Statements Shareholders’ Equity excess tax benefit realized. addition, the Company recognizes the indirect effects share-based compensation & tax credits, foreign tax credits and domestic manufacturing deductions the Consolidated Statements Operations. Further information regarding share-based compensation can found Note , “Benefit Plans.” Income Taxes The provision for income taxes computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases assets and liabilities and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply taxable income effect for the years which those tax assets and liabilities are expected realized settled. The Company records valuation allowance reduce deferred tax assets the amount that believed more likely than not realized. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from uncertain tax position only more likely than not the tax position will sustained examination the taxing authorities, based the technical merits the position. The tax benefits recognized the financial statements from such positions are then measured based the largest benefit that has greater than % likelihood being realized upon settlement. See Note , “Income Taxes” for additional information. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed dividing income available common shareholders the weighted-average number shares common stock outstanding during the period increased include the number additional shares common stock that would have been outstanding the potentially dilutive securities had been issued. Potentially dilutive securities include unvested RSUs, unvested restricted stock, outstanding stock options and shares purchased employees under the Company’ employee stock purchase plan. The dilutive effect potentially dilutive securities reflected diluted earnings per share application the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, increase the fair market value the Company’ common stock can result greater dilutive effect from potentially dilutive securities. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the computation basic and diluted earnings per share for , and (net income millions and shares thousands): Numerator: Net income $ , $ , $ , Denominator: Weighted-average shares outstanding , , , , , , Effect dilutive securities , , , Weighted-average diluted shares , , , , , , Basic earnings per share $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ Potentially dilutive securities whose effect would have been antidilutive are excluded from the computation diluted earnings per share. Financial Instruments Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities All highly liquid investments with maturities three months less the date purchase are classified cash equivalents. The Company’ marketable debt and equity securities have been classified and accounted for available-for-sale. Management determines the appropriate classification its investments the time purchase and reevaluates the classifications each balance sheet date. The Company classifies its marketable debt securities either short-term long-term based each instrument’ underlying contractual maturity date. Marketable debt securities with maturities months less are classified short-term and marketable debt securities with maturities greater than months are classified long-term. Marketable equity securities, including mutual funds, are classified either short-term long-term based the nature each security and its availability for use current operations. The Company’ marketable debt and equity securities are carried fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net taxes, reported component accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”) shareholders’ equity, with the exception unrealized losses believed other-than-temporary which are reported earnings the current period. The cost securities sold based upon the specific identification method. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company accounts for its derivative instruments either assets liabilities and carries them fair value. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure variability expected future cash flows that are designated cash flow hedges, the effective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument reported component AOCI shareholders’ equity and reclassified into earnings the same period periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss the derivative instrument, any, recognized earnings the current period. receive hedge accounting treatment, cash flow hedges must highly effective offsetting changes expected future cash flows hedged transactions. For options designated cash flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. For derivative instruments that hedge the exposure changes the fair value asset liability and that are designated fair value hedges, both the net gain loss the derivative instrument well the offsetting gain loss the hedged item are recognized earnings the current period. For derivative instruments and foreign currency debt that hedge the exposure changes foreign currency exchange rates used for translation the net investment foreign operation and that are designated net investment hedge, the net gain loss the effective portion the derivative instrument reported the same manner foreign currency translation adjustment. For forward exchange contracts designated net investment hedges, the Company excludes changes fair value relating changes the forward carry component from its definition effectiveness. Accordingly, any gains losses related this forward carry component are recognized earnings the current period. Derivatives that not qualify hedges are adjusted fair value through earnings the current period. Apple Inc. | Form - | Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment various factors, including historical experience, age the accounts receivable balances, credit quality the Company’ customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect the customers’ abilities pay. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost, computed using the first- , first-out method, and net realizable value. Any adjustments reduce the cost inventories their net realizable value are recognized earnings the current period. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed use the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which for buildings the lesser years the remaining life the underlying building; between one and five years for machinery and equipment, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; and the shorter lease term useful life for leasehold improvements. The Company capitalizes eligible costs acquire develop internal-use software that are incurred subsequent the preliminary project stage. Capitalized costs related internal-use software are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets, which range from three five years . Depreciation and amortization expense property and equipment was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion during , and , respectively. Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets The Company reviews property, plant and equipment, inventory component prepayments and identifiable intangibles, excluding goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, for impairment. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events changes circumstances indicate the carrying amount asset may not recoverable. Recoverability these assets measured comparison their carrying amounts future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected generate. property, plant and equipment, inventory component prepayments and certain identifiable intangibles are considered impaired, the impairment recognized equals the amount which the carrying value the asset exceeds its fair value. The Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives; rather, such assets are required tested for impairment least annually sooner events changes circumstances indicate that the assets may impaired. The Company performs its goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests the fourth quarter each year. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges related goodwill indefinite lived intangible assets during , and . For purposes testing goodwill for impairment, the Company established reporting units based its current reporting structure. Goodwill has been allocated these reporting units the extent relates each reporting unit. and , the Company’ goodwill was primarily allocated the Americas and Europe reporting units. The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. The Company typically amortizes its acquired intangible assets with definite useful lives over periods from three seven years . Fair Value Measurements The Company applies fair value accounting for all financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized disclosed fair value the financial statements recurring basis. The Company defines fair value the price that would received from selling asset paid transfer liability orderly transaction between market participants the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities that are required recorded fair value, the Company considers the principal most advantageous market which the Company would transact and the market-based risk measurements assumptions that market participants would use price the asset liability, such risks inherent valuation techniques, transfer restrictions and credit risk. Fair value estimated applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level input that available and significant the fair value measurement: Level – Quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. Level – Observable inputs other than quoted prices active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical similar assets liabilities inactive markets, other inputs that are observable can corroborated observable market data for substantially the full term the assets liabilities. Level – Inputs that are generally unobservable and typically reflect management’ estimate assumptions that market participants would use pricing the asset liability. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company’ valuation techniques used measure the fair value money market funds and certain marketable equity securities were derived from quoted prices active markets for identical assets liabilities. The valuation techniques used measure the fair value the Company’ debt instruments and all other financial instruments, all which have counterparties with high credit ratings, were valued based quoted market prices model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from corroborated observable market data. accordance with the fair value accounting requirements, companies may choose measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items fair value. The Company has not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments. Foreign Currency Translation and Remeasurement The Company translates the assets and liabilities its non- . dollar functional currency subsidiaries into . dollars using exchange rates effect the end each period. Revenue and expenses for these subsidiaries are translated using rates that approximate those effect during the period. Gains and losses from these translations are recognized foreign currency translation included AOCI shareholders’ equity. The Company’ subsidiaries that use the . dollar their functional currency remeasure monetary assets and liabilities exchange rates effect the end each period, and inventories, property and nonmonetary assets and liabilities historical rates. Note – Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables show the Company’ cash and available-for-sale securities significant investment category September , and September , ( millions): Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level : Money market funds , — — , , — — Mutual funds — ( ) — — Subtotal , — ( ) , , — Level : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , . agency securities , ( ) , , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , , , Commercial paper , — — , , , — Corporate securities , ( ) , , , Municipal securities ( ) — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , — , Subtotal , , ( ) , , , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Adjusted Cost Unrealized Gains Unrealized Losses Fair Value Cash and Cash Equivalents Short-Term Marketable Securities Long-Term Marketable Securities Cash $ , $ — $ — $ , $ , $ — $ — Level : Money market funds , — — , , — — Mutual funds , — ( ) , — , — Subtotal , — ( ) , , , — Level : . Treasury securities , ( ) , , , , . agency securities , — , , , , Non- . government securities , ( ) , , Certificates deposit and time deposits , — — , , , , Commercial paper , — — , , , — Corporate securities , , ( ) , , , Municipal securities — — Mortgage- and asset-backed securities , ( ) , — , Subtotal , , ( ) , , , , Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , The Company may sell certain its marketable securities prior their stated maturities for strategic reasons including, but not limited , anticipation credit deterioration and duration management. The maturities the Company’ long-term marketable securities generally range from one five years . The Company considers the declines market value its marketable securities investment portfolio temporary nature. The Company typically invests highly-rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount credit exposure any one issuer. The policy generally requires investments investment grade, with the primary objective minimizing the potential risk principal loss. Fair values were determined for each individual security the investment portfolio. When evaluating investment for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such the length time and extent which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition the issuer and any changes thereto, changes market interest rates and the Company’ intent sell, whether more likely than not will required sell the investment before recovery the investment’ cost basis. September , , the Company does not consider any its investments other-than-temporarily impaired. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company may use derivatives partially offset its business exposure foreign currency and interest rate risk expected future cash flows, net investments certain foreign subsidiaries and certain existing assets and liabilities. However, the Company may choose not hedge certain exposures for variety reasons including, but not limited , accounting considerations and the prohibitive economic cost hedging particular exposures. There can assurance the hedges will offset more than portion the financial impact resulting from movements foreign currency exchange interest rates. help protect gross margins from fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, certain the Company’ subsidiaries whose functional currency the . dollar may hedge portion forecasted foreign currency revenue, and subsidiaries whose functional currency not the . dollar and who sell local currencies may hedge portion forecasted inventory purchases not denominated the subsidiaries’ functional currencies. The Company may enter into forward contracts, option contracts other instruments manage this risk and may designate these instruments cash flow hedges. The Company typically hedges portions its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for months . help protect the net investment foreign operation from adverse changes foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts offset the changes the carrying amounts these investments due fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates. addition, the Company may use non-derivative financial instruments, such its foreign currency-denominated debt, economic hedges its net investments certain foreign subsidiaries. both these cases, the Company designates these instruments net investment hedges. Apple Inc. | Form - | The Company may also enter into non-designated foreign currency contracts partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated the remeasurement certain assets and liabilities denominated non-functional currencies. The Company may enter into interest rate swaps, options, other instruments manage interest rate risk. These instruments may offset portion changes income expense, changes fair value the Company’ term debt investments. The Company designates these instruments either cash flow fair value hedges. The Company’ hedged interest rate transactions September , are expected recognized within years . The Company may enter into foreign currency swaps manage currency risk its foreign currency-denominated term debt. These instruments may offset portion the foreign currency remeasurement gains losses the Company’ term debt and related interest payments. The Company designates these instruments cash flow hedges. The Company’ hedged term debt-related foreign currency transactions September , are expected recognized within years . Cash Flow Hedges The effective portions cash flow hedges are recorded AOCI until the hedged item recognized earnings. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges foreign currency revenue are recognized component net sales the same period the related revenue recognized, and deferred gains and losses related cash flow hedges inventory purchases are recognized component cost sales the same period the related costs are recognized. Deferred gains and losses associated with cash flow hedges interest income expense are recognized other income/(expense), net the same period the related income expense recognized. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing cash flow hedges are recognized other income/(expense), net. Derivative instruments designated cash flow hedges must -designated hedges when probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur the initially identified time period within subsequent two-month time period. Deferred gains and losses AOCI associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified into other income/(expense), net the period -designation. Any subsequent changes fair value such derivative instruments are reflected other income/(expense), net unless they are -designated hedges other transactions. Net Investment Hedges The effective portions net investment hedges are recorded other comprehensive income/(loss) (“OCI”) part the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing net investment hedges are recognized other income/(expense), net. Fair Value Hedges Gains and losses related changes fair value hedges are recognized earnings along with corresponding loss gain related the change value the underlying hedged item. Non-Designated Derivatives Derivatives that are not designated hedging instruments are adjusted fair value through earnings the financial statement line item which the derivative relates. result, the Company recognized gain $ million net sales, loss $ million cost sales and gain $ million other income/(expense), net for . The Company records all derivatives the Consolidated Balance Sheets fair value. The Company’ accounting treatment for these derivative instruments based its hedge designation. The following tables show the Company’ derivative instruments gross fair value September , and September , ( millions): Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Interest rate contracts $ $ — $ Derivative liabilities ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ , Interest rate contracts $ $ — $ Apple Inc. | Form - | Fair Value Derivatives Designated Hedge Instruments Fair Value Derivatives Not Designated Hedge Instruments Total Fair Value Derivative assets ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ Interest rate contracts $ $ — $ Derivative liabilities ( ) : Foreign exchange contracts $ $ $ , Interest rate contracts $ $ — $ ( ) The fair value derivative assets measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded other current assets and other non-current assets the Consolidated Balance Sheets. ( ) The fair value derivative liabilities measured using Level fair value inputs and recorded accrued expenses and other non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table shows the pre-tax gains and losses the Company’ derivative and non-derivative instruments designated cash flow, net investment and fair value hedges OCI and the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Gains/(Losses) recognized OCI – effective portion: Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Interest rate contracts ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ $ , Net investment hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ — $ — $ Foreign currency debt ( ) ( ) Total $ $ ( ) $ Gains/(Losses) reclassified from AOCI into net income – effective portion: Cash flow hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , Interest rate contracts ( ) ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ $ , Gains/(Losses) derivative instruments: Fair value hedges: Interest rate contracts $ ( ) $ $ Gains/(Losses) related hedged items: Fair value hedges: Fixed-rate debt $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the notional amounts the Company’ outstanding derivative instruments and credit risk amounts associated with outstanding unsettled derivative instruments September , and September , ( millions): Notional Amount Credit Risk Amount Notional Amount Credit Risk Amount Instruments designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ , $ , $ Interest rate contracts $ , $ $ , $ Instruments not designated accounting hedges: Foreign exchange contracts $ , $ $ , $ The notional amounts for outstanding derivative instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding and not represent the amount the Company’ exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amounts represent the Company’ gross exposure potential accounting loss derivative instruments that are outstanding unsettled all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then-current currency interest rates each respective date. The Company’ exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time currency and interest rates change. Although the table above reflects the notional and credit risk amounts the Company’ derivative instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which are designed reduce credit risk permitting net settlement transactions with the same counterparty. further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral received posted when the net fair value certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities their gross fair values its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The net cash collateral received the Company related derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $ million and $ million September , and September , , respectively, which were recorded accrued expenses the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under master netting arrangements with the respective counterparties the Company’ derivative contracts, the Company allowed net settle transactions with single net amount payable one party the other. September , and September , , the potential effects these rights set-off associated with the Company’ derivative contracts, including the effects collateral, would reduction both derivative assets and derivative liabilities $ billion and $ billion , respectively, resulting net derivative assets $ million and $ million , respectively. Accounts Receivable Trade Receivables The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, value-added resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral certain instances limit credit risk. addition, when possible, the Company attempts limit credit risk trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers requiring third-party financing, loans leases support credit exposure. These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer. such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse credit risk sharing related any these arrangements. September , , the Company had two customers that individually represented % more total trade receivables, each which accounted for % . September , , the Company had one customer that represented % more total trade receivables, which accounted for % . The Company’ cellular network carriers accounted for % and % trade receivables September , and September , , respectively. Vendor Non-Trade Receivables The Company has non-trade receivables from certain its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale components these vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies assemble final products for the Company. The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers. September , , the Company had three vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for % , % and % . September , , the Company had two vendors that individually represented % more total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for % and % . Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Consolidated Financial Statement Details The following tables show the Company’ consolidated financial statement details September , and September , ( millions): Property, Plant and Equipment, Net Land and buildings $ , $ , Machinery, equipment and internal-use software , , Leasehold improvements , , Gross property, plant and equipment , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Total property, plant and equipment, net $ , $ , Other Non-Current Liabilities Deferred tax liabilities $ , $ , Other non-current liabilities , , Total other non-current liabilities $ , $ , Other Income/(Expense), Net The following table shows the detail other income/(expense), net for , and ( millions): Interest and dividend income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Other expense, net ( ) ( , ) ( ) Total other income/(expense), net $ , $ , $ , Note – Acquired Intangible Assets The Company’ acquired intangible assets with definite useful lives primarily consist patents and licenses. The following table summarizes the components acquired intangible asset balances September , and September , ( millions): Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Carrying Amount Definite-lived and amortizable acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Indefinite-lived and non-amortizable acquired intangible assets — — Total acquired intangible assets $ , $ ( , ) $ , $ , $ ( , ) $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Amortization expense related acquired intangible assets was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. September , , the remaining weighted-average amortization period for acquired intangible assets years . The expected annual amortization expense related acquired intangible assets September , , follows ( millions): $ Thereafter Total $ , Note – Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for , and , consisted the following ( millions): Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred , , , Total ( ) , , , State: Current , Deferred ( ) ( ) Total , Foreign: Current , , , Deferred ( ) ( , ) Total , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes taxes $ billion , $ billion and $ billion provided foreign pre-tax earnings , and , respectively. The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pre-tax earnings $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively. The Company’ consolidated financial statements provide for any related tax liability undistributed earnings that the Company does not intend indefinitely reinvested outside the . Substantially all the Company’ undistributed international earnings intended indefinitely reinvested operations outside the . were generated subsidiaries organized Ireland, which has statutory tax rate % . September , , . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ billion such earnings. The amount unrecognized deferred tax liability related these temporary differences estimated $ billion . September , and September , , $ billion and $ billion , respectively, the Company’ cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held foreign subsidiaries and are generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries are generally subject . income taxation repatriation the . Apple Inc. | Form - | reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , and ) income before provision for income taxes for , and , follows (dollars millions): Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal effect Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Domestic production activities deduction ( ) ( ) ( ) Research and development credit, net ( ) ( ) ( ) Other ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Company’ income taxes payable have been reduced the tax benefits from employee stock plan awards. For RSUs, the Company receives income tax benefit upon the award’ vesting equal the tax effect the underlying stock’ fair market value. The Company had net excess tax benefits from equity awards $ million , $ million and $ million , and , respectively, which were reflected increases common stock. September , and September , , the significant components the Company’ deferred tax assets and liabilities were ( millions): Deferred tax assets: Accrued liabilities and other reserves $ , $ , Basis capital assets , , Deferred revenue , , Deferred cost sharing Share-based compensation Other Total deferred tax assets, net valuation allowance $ , , Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings foreign subsidiaries , , Other Total deferred tax liabilities , , Net deferred tax liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the effects tax losses, credits and the future income tax effects temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. Uncertain Tax Positions Tax positions are evaluated two-step process. The Company first determines whether more likely than not that tax position will sustained upon examination. tax position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold then measured determine the amount benefit recognize the financial statements. The tax position measured the largest amount benefit that greater than % likely being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company classifies gross interest and penalties and unrecognized tax benefits that are not expected result payment receipt cash within one year non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion , which $ billion , recognized, would affect the Company’ effective tax rate. September , , the total amount gross unrecognized tax benefits was $ billion , which $ billion , recognized, would have affected the Company’ effective tax rate. Apple Inc. | Form - | The aggregate changes the balance gross unrecognized tax benefits, which excludes interest and penalties, for , and , follows ( millions): Beginning balances $ , $ , $ , Increases related tax positions taken during prior year , , Decreases related tax positions taken during prior year ( ) ( ) ( ) Increases related tax positions taken during the current year , , , Decreases related settlements with taxing authorities ( ) ( , ) ( ) Decreases related expiration statute limitations ( ) — ( ) Ending balances $ , $ , $ , The Company includes interest and penalties related unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes. September , and September , , the total amount gross interest and penalties accrued was $ billion and $ billion , respectively, which classified non-current liabilities the Consolidated Balance Sheets. connection with tax matters, the Company recognized interest and penalty expense , and $ million , $ million and $ million , respectively. The Company subject taxation and files income tax returns the . federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. The . Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) concluded its review the years through during the third quarter . All years prior are closed, and the IRS currently examining the years through . The Company also subject audits state, local and foreign tax authorities. major states and major foreign jurisdictions, the years subsequent generally remain open and could subject examination the taxing authorities. The Company believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome tax audits cannot predicted with certainty. any issues addressed the Company’ tax audits are resolved manner not consistent with its expectations, the Company could required adjust its provision for income taxes the period such resolution occurs. Although timing the resolution and closure audits not certain, the Company does not believe reasonably possible that its gross unrecognized tax benefits would materially change the next months. August , , the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid the Company providing tax opinions and concerning the tax allocation profits the Irish branches two subsidiaries the Company (the “State Aid Decision”). The State Aid Decision orders Ireland calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June through December . Irish legislative changes, effective January , eliminated the application the tax opinions from that date forward. The Company believes the State Aid Decision without merit and appealed the General Court the Court Justice the European Union. Ireland has also appealed the State Aid Decision. Although Ireland still computing the recovery amount, the Company expects the amount line with the European Commission’ announced recovery amount € billion , plus interest € billion . Once the recovery amount finalized Ireland, the Company anticipates funding , including interest, out foreign cash. These amounts are expected placed into escrow , where they will remain pending conclusion all appeals. The Company believes that any incremental Irish corporate income taxes potentially due related the State Aid Decision would creditable against . taxes. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Debt Commercial Paper The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant commercial paper program. The Company uses net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases. September , and September , , the Company had $ billion and $ billion Commercial Paper outstanding, respectively, with maturities generally less than nine months . The weighted-average interest rate the Company’ Commercial Paper was % September , and % September , . The following table provides summary cash flows associated with the issuance and maturities Commercial Paper for and ( millions): Maturities less than days: Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net $ ( , ) $ ( ) Maturities greater than days: Proceeds from commercial paper , , Repayments commercial paper ( , ) ( , ) Proceeds from/(Repayments ) commercial paper, net , Total change commercial paper, net $ , $ ( ) Term Debt September , , the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for aggregate principal amount $ billion (collectively the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations, and interest payable arrears, quarterly for the . dollar-denominated and Australian dollar-denominated floating-rate notes, semi-annually for the . dollar-denominated, Australian dollar-denominated, British pound-denominated, Japanese yen-denominated and Canadian dollar-denominated fixed-rate notes and annually for the euro-denominated and Swiss franc-denominated fixed-rate notes. The following table provides summary the Company’ term debt September , and September , : Maturities Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes $ , % % $ , % % Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % , % – % debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes , % % , % – % Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % , % – % debt issuances $ billion: Floating-rate notes – , % – % , % – % Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % , % – % debt issuances $ billion: Floating-rate notes – , % – % , % – % Fixed-rate % – % notes – , % – % , % – % Apple Inc. | Form - | Maturities (Continued) Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate Amount ( millions) Effective Interest Rate Second quarter debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes % — — % Floating-rate notes % — — % Floating-rate notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Second quarter debt issuance $ billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Third quarter debt issuance $ billion: Floating-rate notes % — — % Floating-rate notes % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Third quarter euro-denominated debt issuance € billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Third quarter debt issuance $ billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fourth quarter Canadian dollar-denominated debt issuance $ billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fourth quarter debt issuance $ billion: Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Fixed-rate % notes , % — — % Total term debt , , Unamortized premium/(discount) and issuance costs, net ( ) ( ) Hedge accounting fair value adjustments ( ) Less: Current portion long-term debt ( , ) ( , ) Total long-term debt $ , $ , manage interest rate risk certain its . dollar-denominated fixed- floating-rate notes, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps effectively convert the fixed interest rates floating interest rates the floating interest rates fixed interest rates portion these notes. Additionally, manage foreign currency risk certain its foreign currency-denominated notes, the Company has entered into foreign currency swaps effectively convert these notes . dollar-denominated notes. portion the Company’ Japanese yen-denominated notes designated hedge the foreign currency exposure the Company’ net investment foreign operation. September , and September , , the carrying value the debt designated net investment hedge was $ billion and $ billion , respectively. For further discussion regarding the Company’ use derivative instruments see the Derivative Financial Instruments section Note , “Financial Instruments.” Apple Inc. | Form - | The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest the Notes, amortization the discount premium and, applicable, adjustments related hedging. The Company recognized $ billion , $ billion and $ million interest expense its term debt for , and , respectively. The future principal payments for the Company’ Notes September , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter , Total term debt $ , September , and September , , the fair value the Company’ Notes, based Level inputs, was $ billion and $ billion , respectively. Note – Shareholders’ Equity Dividends The Company declared and paid cash dividends per share during the periods presented follows: Dividends Per Share Amount ( millions) : Fourth quarter $ $ , Third quarter , Second quarter , First quarter , Total cash dividends declared and paid $ $ , : Fourth quarter $ $ , Third quarter , Second quarter , First quarter , Total cash dividends declared and paid $ $ , Future dividends are subject declaration the Board Directors. Share Repurchase Program May , the Company’ Board Directors increased the share repurchase authorization from $ billion $ billion the Company’ common stock, which $ billion had been utilized September , . The Company’ share repurchase program does not obligate acquire any specific number shares. Under the program, shares may repurchased privately negotiated and open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5- under the Securities Exchange Act , amended (the “Exchange Act”). The Company has entered, and the future may enter, into accelerated share repurchase arrangements (“ASRs”) with financial institutions. exchange for -front payments, the financial institutions deliver shares the Company’ common stock during the purchase periods each ASR. The total number shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average repurchase price paid per share, determined the end the applicable purchase period each ASR based the volume-weighted average price the Company’ common stock during that period. The shares received are retired the periods they are delivered, and the -front payments are accounted for reduction shareholders’ equity the Company’ Consolidated Balance Sheets the periods the payments are made. The Company reflects the ASRs repurchase common stock the period delivered for purposes calculating earnings per share and forward contracts indexed its own common stock. The ASRs met all the applicable criteria for equity classification, and therefore were not accounted for derivative instruments. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the Company’ ASR activity and related information during the years ended September , and September , : Purchase Period End Date Number Shares ( thousands) Average Repurchase Price Per Share ASR Amount ( millions) August ASR November , ( ) ( ) $ , May ASR August , ( ) $ $ , February ASR May , $ $ , November ASR February , $ $ , August ASR November , $ $ , May ASR August , $ $ , November ASR April , $ $ , ( ) “Number Shares” represents those shares delivered the beginning the purchase period and does not represent the final number shares delivered under the ASR. The total number shares ultimately delivered, and therefore the average repurchase price paid per share, will determined the end the purchase period based the volume-weighted average price the Company’ common stock during that period. The August ASR purchase period will end November . ( ) Includes million shares delivered and retired the beginning the purchase period, which began the third quarter , and million shares delivered and retired the end the purchase period, which concluded the fourth quarter . Additionally, the Company repurchased shares its common stock the open market, which were retired upon repurchase, during the periods presented follows: Number Shares ( thousands) Average Repurchase Price Per Share Amount ( millions) : Fourth quarter , $ $ , Third quarter , $ , Second quarter , $ , First quarter , $ , Total open market common stock repurchases , $ , : Fourth quarter , $ $ , Third quarter , $ , Second quarter , $ , First quarter , $ , Total open market common stock repurchases , $ , Note – Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income consists two components, net income and OCI. OCI refers revenue, expenses, and gains and losses that under GAAP are recorded element shareholders’ equity but are excluded from net income. The Company’ OCI consists foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the . dollar their functional currency, net deferred gains and losses certain derivative instruments accounted for cash flow hedges and unrealized gains and losses marketable securities classified available-for-sale. Apple Inc. | Form - | The following table shows the pre-tax amounts reclassified from AOCI into the Consolidated Statements Operations, and the associated financial statement line item, for and ( millions): Comprehensive Income Components Financial Statement Line Item Unrealized (gains)/losses derivative instruments: Foreign exchange contracts Revenue $ ( ) $ ( ) Cost sales ( ) ( ) Other income/(expense), net ( ) Interest rate contracts Other income/(expense), net ( , ) ( ) Unrealized (gains)/losses marketable securities Other income/(expense), net ( ) Total amounts reclassified from AOCI $ ( , ) $ ( ) The following table shows the changes AOCI component for and ( millions): Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation Unrealized Gains Losses Derivative Instruments Unrealized Gains Losses Marketable Securities Total Balances September , $ ( ) $ $ ( ) $ ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) before reclassifications , , Amounts reclassified from AOCI — ( ) ( ) Tax effect ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) , Balances September , ( ) , Other comprehensive income/(loss) before reclassifications , ( , ) Amounts reclassified from AOCI — ( , ) ( ) ( , ) Tax effect ( ) ( ) Other comprehensive income/(loss) ( ) ( ) ( ) Balances September , $ ( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Note – Benefit Plans Employee Stock Plan the second quarter , shareholders approved the Employee Stock Plan (the “ Plan”) and terminated the Company’ authority grant new awards under the Employee Stock Plan (the “ Plan”). The Plan provides for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers, and permits the granting RSUs, stock grants, performance-based awards, stock options and stock appreciation rights, well cash bonus awards. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over four years , based continued employment, and are settled upon vesting shares the Company’ common stock one -for-one basis. Each share issued with respect RSUs granted under the Plan reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares. RSUs canceled and shares withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations increase the number shares available for grant under the Plan utilizing factor two times the number RSUs canceled shares withheld. Currently, all RSUs granted under the Plan have dividend equivalent rights (“DERs”), which entitle holders RSUs the same dividend value per share holders common stock. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. Upon approval the Plan, the Company reserved million shares plus the number shares remaining that were reserved but not issued under the Plan. Shares subject outstanding awards under the Plan that expire, are canceled otherwise terminate, are withheld satisfy tax withholding obligations with respect RSUs, will also available for awards under the Plan. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Plan. Apple Inc. | Form - | Employee Stock Plan The Plan shareholder approved plan that provided for broad-based equity grants employees, including executive officers. The Plan permitted the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, RSUs, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights and performance-based awards. Options granted under the Plan generally expire seven ten years after the grant date and generally become exercisable over period four years , based continued employment, with either annual, semi-annual quarterly vesting. RSUs granted under the Plan generally vest over two four years , based continued employment and are settled upon vesting shares the Company’ common stock one -for-one basis. All RSUs, other than RSUs held the Chief Executive Officer, granted under the Plan have DERs. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. the second quarter , the Company terminated the authority grant new awards under the Plan. Director Stock Plan The Director Stock Plan (the “Director Plan”) shareholder approved plan that ( ) permits the Company grant awards RSUs stock options the Company’ non-employee directors, ( ) provides for automatic initial grants RSUs upon non-employee director joining the Board Directors and automatic annual grants RSUs each annual meeting shareholders, and (iii) permits the Board Directors prospectively change the relative mixture stock options and RSUs for the initial and annual award grants and the methodology for determining the number shares the Company’ common stock subject these grants without shareholder approval. Each share issued with respect RSUs granted under the Director Plan reduces the number shares available for grant under the plan two shares. The Director Plan expires November , . All RSUs granted under the Director Plan are entitled DERs. DERs are subject the same vesting and other terms and conditions the corresponding unvested RSUs. DERs are accumulated and paid when the underlying shares vest. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Director Plan. Rule 10b5- Trading Plans During the three months ended September , , Section officers Angela Ahrendts, Timothy . Cook, Luca Maestri, Daniel Riccio and Philip Schiller had equity trading plans place accordance with Rule 10b5- ( )( ) under the Exchange Act. equity trading plan written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates ( formula for determining the amounts, prices and dates) future purchases sales the Company’ stock, including shares acquired pursuant the Company’ employee and director equity plans. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Purchase Plan”) shareholder approved plan under which substantially all employees may purchase the Company’ common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the stock the beginning the end six -month offering periods. employee’ payroll deductions under the Purchase Plan are limited % the employee’ compensation and employees may not purchase more than $ , stock during any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. ( ) Plan The Company’ ( ) Plan deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the ( ) Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pre-tax earnings, the IRS annual contribution limit ( $ , for calendar year ). The Company matches % % each employee’ contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee’ eligible earnings. Apple Inc. | Form - | Restricted Stock Units summary the Company’ RSU activity and related information for , and , follows: Number RSUs ( thousands) Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Per Share Aggregate Fair Value ( millions) Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ RSUs granted , $ RSUs vested ( , ) $ RSUs canceled ( , ) $ Balance September , , $ $ , The fair value the respective vesting dates RSUs was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. The majority RSUs that vested , and were net share settled such that the Company withheld shares with value equivalent the employees’ minimum statutory obligation for the applicable income and other employment taxes, and remitted the cash the appropriate taxing authorities. The total shares withheld were approximately million , million and million for , and , respectively, and were based the value the RSUs their respective vesting dates determined the Company’ closing stock price. Total payments for the employees’ tax obligations taxing authorities were $ billion , $ billion and $ billion , and , respectively, and are reflected financing activity within the Consolidated Statements Cash Flows. These net share settlements had the effect share repurchases the Company they reduced the number shares that would have otherwise been issued result the vesting and did not represent expense the Company. Share-based Compensation The following table shows summary the share-based compensation expense included the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and ( millions): Cost sales $ $ $ Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , Total share-based compensation expense $ , $ , $ , The income tax benefit related share-based compensation expense was $ billion , $ billion and $ billion for , and , respectively. September , , the total unrecognized compensation cost related outstanding RSUs, restricted stock and stock options was $ billion , which the Company expects recognize over weighted-average period years . Note – Commitments and Contingencies Accrued Warranty and Indemnification The following table shows changes the Company’ accrued warranties and related costs for , and ( millions): Beginning accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , Cost warranty claims ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accruals for product warranty , , , Ending accrued warranty and related costs $ , $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | Agreements entered into the Company sometimes include indemnification provisions which may subject the Company costs and damages the event claim against indemnified third party. the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect indemnification third parties. The Company offers iPhone Upgrade Program, which available customers who purchase qualifying iPhone the ., the . and mainland China. The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right trade that iPhone for specified amount when purchasing new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met. The Company accounts for the trade- right guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net the fair value such right, with subsequent changes the guarantee liability recognized within revenue. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed indemnify such individuals the fullest extent permitted law against liabilities that arise reason their status directors officers the Company and advance expenses incurred such individuals connection with related legal proceedings. not possible determine the maximum potential amount payments the Company could required make under these agreements due the limited history prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved each claim. While the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage, such insurance coverage may insufficient cover all losses all types claims that may arise. Concentrations the Available Sources Supply Materials and Product Although most components essential the Company’ business are generally available from multiple sources, few components are currently obtained from single limited sources. addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers. Therefore, many components used the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are times subject industry-wide shortage and significant pricing fluctuations that could materially adversely affect the Company’ financial condition and operating results. The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used its competitors, and new products introduced the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When component product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured manufacturing capacity has increased. the Company’ supply components for new existing product were delayed constrained, outsourcing partner delayed shipments completed products the Company, the Company’ financial condition and operating results could materially adversely affected. The Company’ business and financial performance could also materially adversely affected depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternative source. Continued availability these components acceptable prices, all, may affected those suppliers decide concentrate the production common components instead components customized meet the Company’ requirements. The Company has entered into agreements for the supply many components; however, there can guarantee that the Company will able extend renew these agreements similar terms, all. Therefore, the Company remains subject significant risks supply shortages and price increases that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Substantially all the Company’ hardware products are manufactured outsourcing partners that are located primarily Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured the . and Ireland. significant concentration this manufacturing currently performed small number outsourcing partners, often single locations. Certain these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers components and manufacturers for many the Company’ products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners manufacturing schedules, the Company’ operating results could adversely affected its outsourcing partners were unable meet their production commitments. The Company’ manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover its requirements for periods days . Other Off-Balance Sheet Commitments Operating Leases The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The Company does not currently utilize any other off-balance sheet financing arrangements. September , , the Company’ total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $ billion . The Company’ retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding years and generally contain multi-year renewal options. Apple Inc. | Form - | Rent expense under all operating leases, including both cancelable and noncancelable leases, was $ billion , $ million and $ million , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases having initial remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , Thereafter , Total $ , Unconditional Purchase Obligations The Company has entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements which require the future purchase goods services (“Unconditional Purchase Obligations”). The Company’ Unconditional Purchase Obligations primarily consist payments for supplier arrangements, internet and telecommunication services and intellectual property licenses. Future payments under noncancelable Unconditional Purchase Obligations having remaining term excess one year September , , are follows ( millions): $ , , , , , Thereafter Total $ , Contingencies The Company subject various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen the ordinary course business and that have not been fully adjudicated, further discussed Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Risk Factors” and Part , Item this Form - under the heading “Legal Proceedings.” the opinion management, there was not least reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred material loss, material loss excess recorded accrual, with respect loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome litigation inherently uncertain. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood such outcome remote, one more these legal matters were resolved against the Company reporting period for amounts excess management’ expectations, the Company’ consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could materially adversely affected. Apple Inc. . Samsung Electronics ., Ltd., . August , , jury returned verdict awarding the Company $ billion its lawsuit against Samsung Electronics ., Ltd. and affiliated parties the United States District Court, Northern District California, San Jose Division. March , , the District Court entered final judgment favor the Company the amount approximately $ million . May , , the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed part, and reversed part, the decision the District Court. result, the Court Appeals ordered entry final judgment damages the amount approximately $ million , with the District Court determine supplemental damages and interest, well damages owed for products subject the reversal part. Samsung paid $ million the Company December , which was included net sales the Consolidated Statement Operations. December , , the . Supreme Court remanded the case the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit for further proceedings related the $ million damages. February , , the . Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit remanded the case the District Court determine what additional proceedings, any, are needed. October , , remand from the . Supreme Court, the District Court ordered new trial damages. Apple Inc. | Form - | Note – Segment Information and Geographic Data The Company reports segment information based the “management” approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used management for making decisions and assessing performance the source the Company’ reportable segments. The Company manages its business primarily geographic basis. The Company’ reportable segments consist the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, well India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included the Company’ other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one managed separately better align with the location the Company’ customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics each geographic region. The accounting policies the various segments are the same those described Note , “Summary Significant Accounting Policies.” The Company evaluates the performance its reportable segments based net sales and operating income. Net sales for geographic segments are generally based the location customers and sales through the Company’ retail stores located those geographic locations. Operating income for each segment includes net sales third parties, related cost sales and operating expenses directly attributable the segment. Advertising expenses are generally included the geographic segment which the expenditures are incurred. Operating income for each segment excludes other income and expense and certain expenses managed outside the reportable segments. Costs excluded from segment operating income include various corporate expenses such & , corporate marketing expenses, certain share-based compensation expenses, income taxes, various nonrecurring charges and other separately managed general and administrative costs. The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes. The following table shows information reportable segment for , and ( millions): Americas: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Europe: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Greater China: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Japan: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , Rest Asia Pacific: Net sales $ , $ , $ , Operating income $ , $ , $ , reconciliation the Company’ segment operating income the Consolidated Statements Operations for , and follows ( millions): Segment operating income $ , $ , $ , Research and development expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other corporate expenses, net ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Total operating income $ , $ , $ , Apple Inc. | Form - | The . and China were the only countries that accounted for more than % the Company’ net sales , and . There was single customer that accounted for more than % net sales , and . Net sales for , and and long-lived assets September , and September , were follows ( millions): Net sales: . $ , $ , $ , China ( ) , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , Long-lived assets: . $ , $ , China ( ) , , Other countries , , Total long-lived assets $ , $ , ( ) China includes Hong Kong and Taiwan. Long-lived assets located China consist primarily product tooling and manufacturing process equipment and assets related retail stores and related infrastructure. Net sales product for , and were follows ( millions): iPhone ( ) $ , $ , $ , iPad ( ) , , , Mac ( ) , , , Services ( ) , , , Other Products ( )( ) , , , Total net sales $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes deferrals and amortization related software upgrade rights and non-software services. ( ) Includes revenue from Digital Content and Services, AppleCare, Apple Pay, licensing and other services. Services net sales the fourth quarter included favorable one-time adjustment $ million due change estimate based the availability additional supporting information. ( ) Includes sales Apple , Apple Watch, Beats products, iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories. Note – Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) The following tables show summary the Company’ quarterly financial information for each the four quarters and ( millions, except per share amounts): Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter : Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ) : Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ Apple Inc. | Form - | Fourth Quarter Third Quarter Second Quarter First Quarter : Net sales $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share ( ) : Basic $ $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ $ ( ) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum quarterly basic and diluted per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted earnings per share. Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements operations, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company’ management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with . generally accepted accounting principles. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California November , Apple Inc. | Form - | Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board Directors and Shareholders Apple Inc. have audited Apple Inc.’ internal control over financial reporting September , , based criteria established Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework) (“the COSO criteria”). Apple Inc.’ management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting included the accompanying Management’ Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility express opinion the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control based the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinion. company’ internal control over financial reporting process designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent detect misstatements. Also, projections any evaluation effectiveness future periods are subject the risk that controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, Apple Inc. maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting September , , based the COSO criteria. also have audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements Apple Inc. and our report dated November , expressed unqualified opinion thereon. / / Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California November , Apple Inc. | Form - | ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Controls and Procedures Evaluation Disclosure Controls and Procedures Based evaluation under the supervision and with the participation the Company’ management, the Company’ principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company’ disclosure controls and procedures defined Rules 13a- ( ) and 15d- ( ) under the Exchange Act were effective September , provide reasonable assurance that information required disclosed the Company reports that files submits under the Exchange Act ( ) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified the SEC rules and forms and ( ) accumulated and communicated the Company’ management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, appropriate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Inherent Limitations Over Internal Controls The Company’ internal control over financial reporting designed provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with . generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The Company’ internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the Company’ assets; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP, and that the Company’ receipts and expenditures are being made only accordance with authorizations the Company’ management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the Company’ assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Management, including the Company’ Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that the Company’ internal controls will prevent detect all errors and all fraud. control system, matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives the control system are met. Further, the design control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits controls must considered relative their costs. Because the inherent limitations all control systems, evaluation internal controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances fraud, any, have been detected. Also, any evaluation the effectiveness controls future periods are subject the risk that those internal controls may become inadequate because changes business conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. Management’ Annual Report Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company’ management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting ( defined Rule 13a- ( ) under the Exchange Act). Management conducted assessment the effectiveness the Company’ internal control over financial reporting based the criteria set forth Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission ( framework). Based the Company’ assessment, management has concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective September , provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements accordance with GAAP. The Company’ independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued audit report the Company’ internal control over financial reporting, which appears Part , Item this Form - . Changes Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were changes the Company’ internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter , which were identified connection with management’ evaluation required paragraph ( ) Rules 13a- and 15d- under the Exchange Act, that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, the Company’ internal control over financial reporting. ', 'item 9b. ': 'Other Information Not applicable. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required this Item set forth under the headings “Corporate Governance,” “Directors,” “Executive Officers” and “Other Information—Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , connection with the solicitation proxies for the Company’ annual meeting shareholders and incorporated herein reference. The Company has code ethics, “Business Conduct: The way business worldwide,” that applies all employees, including the Company’ principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer, well the members the Board Directors the Company. The code available investor apple com corporate-governance cfm. The Company intends disclose any changes , waivers from, this code posting such information the same website filing Form - , each case the extent such disclosure required rules the SEC Nasdaq. ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation The information required this Item set forth under the heading “Executive Compensation,” under the subheadings “Board Oversight Risk Management” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” under the heading “Corporate Governance” and under the subheadings “Compensation Directors” and “Director Compensation— ” under the heading “Directors” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters The information required this Item set forth under the headings “Other Information—Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Other Information—Equity Compensation Plan Information” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required this Item set forth under the subheadings “Board Committees”, “Review, Approval, Ratification Transactions with Related Persons” and “Transactions with Related Persons” under the heading “Corporate Governance” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'Principal Accounting Fees and Services The information required this Item set forth under the subheadings “Fees Paid Auditors” and “Policy Audit Committee Pre-Approval Audit and Non-Audit Services Performed the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” under the proposal “Ratification Appointment Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” the Company’ Proxy Statement filed with the SEC within days after September , and incorporated herein reference. Apple Inc. | Form - | PART ', 'item 15. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules ( ) Documents filed part this report ( ) All financial statements Index Consolidated Financial Statements Page ( ) Financial Statement Schedules All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information not applicable not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included this Form - . ( ) Exhibits required Item Regulation - ( ) Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - - - - - - - - - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date - - - - - - - - - - - - - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - *, ** * - * - * - Apple Inc. | Form - | Incorporated Reference Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form Exhibit Filing Date/ Period End Date * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - *, ** *, ** ** ** ** ** ** ** *** INS** XBRL Instance Document. SCH** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. CAL** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. DEF** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. LAB** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. PRE** XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ** Filed herewith. *** Furnished herewith. ( ) Certain instruments defining the rights holders long-term debt securities the Registrant are omitted pursuant Item ( )( )(iii) Regulation - . The Registrant hereby undertakes furnish the SEC, upon request, copies any such instruments. ', 'item 16. ': 'Form - Summary None. Apple Inc. | Form - | '}