{'item 1. ': 'Business General Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" the "Company") was incorporated under the laws the State California January , . The Company\' principal executive offices are located Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, and its telephone number ( ) - . The Company designs, manufactures and markets microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing products for sale primarily business, education, home, and government customers. Substantially all the Company\' net sales date have been derived from the sale personal computers from its Apple Macintosh line computers and related software and peripherals. The Company operates one principal industry segment across geographically diverse marketplaces. Apple delivers full range information solutions people wide variety growing markets. The Company\' strategy maintain and expand its market share the personal computer industry while developing and expanding new related businesses, such its businesses -line services, licensing the Macintosh operating system, client server systems and personal interactive electronics. Historically, the Company\' principal products were built using the Motorola series Complex Instruction Set Computing (CISC) microprocessors. However, computer manufacturers are beginning move from CISC architecture Reduced Instruction Set Computing (RISC) architecture. Accordingly, during , the Company began major product transition and introduced new line Macintosh computers based the PowerPC (registered trademark) architecture, new RISC microprocessor jointly developed Apple, International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) and Motorola, Inc. The Company believes that these PowerPC based products will yield significant improvements price performance and functionality compared with its CISC-based products. Further information regarding this product transition may found Part , Item this Annual Report Form - (the "Form - ") under the subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition", which information hereby incorporated reference. Principal products The Company offers wide range personal computing products, including personal computers, related peripherals, software, and networking and connectivity products. Personal Computing Products Apple Macintosh (registered trademark) personal computers were first introduced , and are characterized their intuitive ease use, innovative applications base, and built- networking, graphics and multimedia capabilities. Currently, the Company uses two types microprocessors its line personal computing products. Products based the new RISC-based microprocessors includes the Power Macintosh( ) family and the Macintosh Performa (registered trademark) series personal computers. Products based the Motorola series microprocessors include the Macintosh , Macintosh Performa, Macintosh Quadra (registered trademark), and the PowerBook (registered trademark) families computers. Generally, products based the Motorola series microprocessors can also upgraded take advantage the PowerPC processor. Power Macintosh The Power Macintosh family personal computers the first Apple computer use PowerPC, new RISC-based microprocessor developed Apple, IBM, and Motorola, Inc. This new high-performance family personal computers targeted business and professional users and designed meet the speed, expansion and networking needs the most demanding Macintosh user. These Power Macintosh products not only support virtually all existing Macintosh applications, but can also run -DOS and Windows applications when using SoftWindows software from Insignia Solutions. Macintosh The family personal computers offers high performance and competitive prices flexible, modular design. personal computers are well-suited for education and business applications such graphics, color presentations and spreadsheets. products are also capable running the Apple IIe applications that large number primary and secondary schools have acquired over the years. Macintosh Performa The Performa family personal computers designed appeal first- time personal computer users. These products feature all- -one box computing solutions, including software and hardware chosen specifically with home users mind. Performa products also include -home service and unlimited toll-free telephone support. Macintosh Quadra The Quadra family personal computers includes the most powerful desktop products the Macintosh line which uses the series microprocessors. Quadra personal computers are targeted business and professional users, and include wide variety built- features that make them well-suited for activities such color publishing, multi-user accounting, three-dimensional modeling, computer-aided design (CAD), and computer-aided engineering (CAE). Macintosh PowerBook The PowerBook family notebook-sized personal computers specifically designed for mobile computing needs. All PowerBook personal computers include the capability connect Macintosh desktop personal computers and AppleTalk (registered trademark) networks and, therefore, access files and services that are located remotely; they also offer the capability transmit facsimiles. Peripheral Products The Company offers full line associated computer peripherals, including the ImageWriter (registered trademark), StyleWriter (registered trademark), Color StyleWriter and LaserWriter (registered trademark) printer families, the AppleCD , , 300e Plus and 300i Plus, the PowerCD, disk drives, the Apple OneScanner( ) family scanners and range color and monochrome monitors. Personal Digital-Assistant Products The Newton (registered trademark) MessagePad( ) communications assistant integrates Newton technology hand-held communications device that intelligently assists the user capturing, organizing and communicating information. Operating System Software and Application Software The Company\' operating system software, including its proprietary Macintosh system software called Mac( ) , and (registered trademark), version the & UNIX (registered trademark) operating system that includes some the Mac( ) capabilities, provides Apple computers with easy, consistent user interface and built- networking capability based its AppleTalk networking standard, well other industry networking standards, and ensures integration hardware and software. The Company\' system software business group also develops and distributes extensions the Macintosh system software, such utilities, languages, developer tools, and educational software. Claris Corporation, wholly owned subsidiary the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes application software variety established personal productivity categories, such database management and graphics, for Macintosh and Windows-based systems. Claris also publishes and distributes software developed independent developers through its Claris Clear Choice ( ) labeling program. Claris products are distributed primarily through independent software resellers. Networking and Connectivity Products The Company offers full line workgroup server systems that provide file, print and communications services varying size workgroups. The Company also provides networking and communications products that connect Apple systems local area networks, providing access other computers and computing environments. These computing environments include IBM\' large and small systems and Digital Equipment Corporation\' VAX, well systems conforming the Open System Interconnection (OSI) and Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol (TCP ) standards. -Line Services The Company recently launched eWorld( ), -line service which provides global electronic mail system together with news, information and other services. This -line service also includes eWorld for Macintosh and NewtonMail ( ), eWorld\' messaging service for Newton. Marketing and distribution The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers. The Company also continuing its expansion into new distribution channels, such mass merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets and computer superstores, response changing industry practices and customer preferences. The Company\' products are sold primarily business and government customers through independent resellers, value-added resellers and systems integrators; home customers through independent resellers and consumer channels; and education customers through direct sales and independent resellers. order provide products and service its independent resellers timely basis, the Company distributes its products through number Apple distribution and support centers. Business customers account for the largest portion the Company\' revenues. Business customers are attracted the Macintosh particular for variety reasons, including the availability wide variety application software, the reduced amount training resulting from the Macintosh\' intuitive ease use, and the ability the Macintosh network and communicate with other computer systems and environments. Apple personal computers were first introduced education customers the late \' . the United States, the Company one the major suppliers personal computers for both elementary and secondary school customers, well for college and university customers. The Company also substantial supplier institutions higher education outside the United States. the United States, the Company\' formal commitment serve the federal government began with the formation the Apple Federal Systems Group. Although the Company has contracts with number . government agencies, these contracts are not currently material the Company\' overall financial condition results operations. Presently, the United States represents the Company\' largest geographic marketplace. The Apple USA organization, based Campbell, California, focuses the Company\' sales, marketing, and support efforts the United States. Products sold the United States are primarily manufactured the Company\' facilities California, Colorado, and Singapore, and distributed from facilities California and Illinois. Approximately % % the Company\' revenues recent years has come from its international operations. The Company has two international sales and marketing divisions, consisting the Apple Europe division and the Apple Pacific division. The Apple Europe division, based Paris, France, focuses opportunities Europe well parts Africa and the Middle East. Products sold the Europe division are manufactured primarily the Company\' facility Cork, Ireland. The Apple Pacific division, based Cupertino, California, focuses opportunities Japan, Australia, Canada, the Far East, and Latin America. Products sold the Pacific division are manufactured primarily the Company\' manufacturing and assembly facilities California, Colorado and Singapore. summary the Company\' Industry Segment and Geographic Information may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information", which information hereby incorporated reference. Raw materials Although raw materials, processes, and components essential the Company\' business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained from single sources. For example, certain microprocessors used many the Company\' products are currently available only from Motorola, Inc. Any availability limitations, interruption supplies, price increases relative these and other components could adversely affect the Company\' business and financial results. Key components and processes currently obtained from single sources include certain the Company\' displays, microprocessors, mouse devices, keyboards, disk drives, -ROM drives, printers and printer components, ASICs and other custom chips, and certain processes relating construction the plastic housing for the Company\' computers. addition, new products introduced the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source, until the Company has evaluated whether there need for additional supplier. situations where component product utilizes new technologies and processes, there may initial capacity constraints until such time the suppliers\' yields have matured. Materials and components are normally acquired through purchase orders, common the industry, typically covering the Company\' requirements for periods from days. However, the Company continues evaluate the need for supply contract each situation. the supply key single-sourced material, process, component the Company were delayed curtailed, its ability ship the related product utilizing such material, process, component desired quantities and timely manner could adversely affected. The Company\' business and financial performance could also adversely affected, depending the time required obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, identify and obtain sufficient quantities from alternate source. The Company believes that the suppliers whose loss the Company could have material adverse effect upon the Company\' business and financial position include, this time, Canon, Inc., General Electric ., Hitachi, Ltd., IBM, Motorola, Inc., Sharp Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., Tokyo Electric ., Ltd., and their United States affiliates, and VLSI Technology, Inc. However, the Company helps mitigate these potential risks working closely with these and other key suppliers product introduction plans, strategic inventories, and coordinated product introductions. The Company believes that most its single-source suppliers, including most the foregoing companies, are reliable multinational corporations. Most these suppliers manufacture the relevant materials, processes, components multiple plants. The Company further believes that its long-standing business relationships with these and other key suppliers are strong and mutually beneficial nature. The Company has supply agreement with Motorola, Inc. (see Exhibit hereto). The agreement with Motorola continues for five years from January , unless otherwise mutually agreed writing the parties. The Company single-sources microprocessors from Motorola. The supply agreement does not obligate the Company make minimum purchase commitments; however, the agreement does commit the vendor supply the Company\' requirements the particular items for the duration the agreement. The Company has also from time time experienced significant price increases and limited availability certain components that are available from multiple sources, such dynamic random-access memory devices. Any similar occurrences the future could have adverse effect the Company\' operating results. Patents, trademarks, copyrights and licenses The Company currently holds rights patents and copyrights relating certain aspects its computer and peripheral systems. addition, the Company has registered, and has applied register, trademarks the United States and number foreign countries for "Apple", the Apple silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh", Newton, the Newton Lightbulb logo, and numerous other product trademarks. , the Company acquired ownership the trademark "Macintosh" for use connection with computer products. Although the Company believes that the ownership such patents, copyrights, and trademarks important factor its business and that its success does depend part the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily the innovative skills, technical competence, and marketing abilities its personnel. Because technological changes the computer industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate issuance new patents, possible that certain components the Company\' products may unknowingly infringe existing patents others. The Company believes the resolution any claim infringements would not have material adverse effect its financial condition and results operations reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing unfavorable resolution any such claims infringement, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flow could materially affected particular period. The Company has from time time entered into cross-licensing agreements with other companies. The Company engaged certain litigation relating its intellectual property. description such litigation set forth the footnote the financial statements under the subheading "Litigation" included under the heading entitled "Commitments and Contingencies" Part , Item this Form - (Microsoft Hewlett-Packard, Lemelson and Grant litigation), which information hereby incorporated reference. Seasonal business Although the Company does not consider its business highly seasonal, has historically experienced increased sales its first and fourth fiscal quarters, compared other quarters its fiscal year, due holiday demand for and calendar year-end buying some its products. Warranty The Company offers parts and labor limited warranty its products. The warranty period one year from the date purchase the end user. The Company also offers -day warranty for Apple service parts used repair Apple hardware products. addition, consumers may purchase extended service coverage all Apple hardware products. Customers customer the Company accounted for % more net sales for fiscal year . Backlog general, the Company\' resellers typically purchase products - needed basis due the Company\' distribution strategy, which designed expedite the filling orders. Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates depending changing market conditions. Unfilled orders (backlog) can , and often are, canceled will. The Company attempts fill orders the requested delivery schedules. However, products may relatively short supply from time time until production volumes have reached level sufficient meet demand other constraints exist. The Company\' backlog unfilled orders remained relatively unchanged approximately $ million both December , , and November , . The Company expects that substantially all its orders backlog December , will either shipped canceled during fiscal . the Company\' experience, the actual amount product backlog any particular time not meaningful indication its future business prospects. particular, backlog often increases anticipation immediately following introduction new products because over-ordering dealers anticipating shortages. Backlog often reduced sharply once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because the foregoing, well other factors affecting the Company\' backlog, backlog should not considered reliable indicator the Company\' future revenue financial performance. Further information regarding the Company\' backlog may found under Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors that May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Competition The market for the design, manufacture and sale personal computers, personal digital assistants, and related software and peripheral products highly competitive. continues characterized rapid technological advances both hardware and software development that have substantially increased the capabilities and applications these products, and has resulted the frequent introduction new products. The principal competitive factors this market are product quality and reliability, availability software, product features, relative price performance, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, availability hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. Further discussion relating the competitive conditions the personal computing industry and the Company\' competitive position the market place may found under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Competition," included under the heading "Factors that may Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Research and development Because the personal computer industry characterized rapid technological advances, the Company\' ability compete successfully heavily dependent upon its ability ensure continuing and timely flow competitive products the marketplace. The Company continues develop new products and technologies and enhance existing products the areas hardware and peripherals, system software, and networking and communications. The Company\' research and development expenditures totaled $ million, $ million, and $ million, fiscal years , and , respectively. Further information regarding the Company\' & expenditures for fiscal year set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Operating Expenses," and which information hereby incorporated reference. Environmental laws Compliance with United States federal, state, and local laws enacted for the protection the environment has date had material effect upon the Company\' capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects the future based the nature its operations and the thrust such laws, assurance can given that such laws, any future laws enacted for the protection the environment, will not have material adverse effect the Company. Employees September , , Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had , regular employees, and additional , temporary part-time contractors and employees. Foreign and domestic operations and geographic data Information regarding financial data geographic area and the risks associated with international operations set forth under Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic Information", and under Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Global Market Risks," included under the heading "Factors that may Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which information hereby incorporated reference. Margins sales Apple products foreign countries, and domestic sales products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can adversely affected foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and international trade regulations, including tariffs and anti-dumping penalties. Item . Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Pacific. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Certain these leased facilities are subject the Company\' restructuring actions initiated the third quarter both and . The amount space leased the Company may decline the future the leases for facilities subject restructuring actions are terminated pursuant agreements with landlords expire scheduled. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, service and support center. The Company also owns the research and development facility located Cupertino, California, and centralized domestic data center Napa, California which approximate , and , square feet, respectively. Outside the United States, the Company owns facility Apeldoorn, Netherlands, which used primarily for distribution, totaling approximately , square feet, addition certain other international facilities, totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested additional internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding the Company\' purchase its remaining partnership interest Cupertino Gateway Partners, formed for the purpose constructing the campus-type office facility that now wholly owned the Company, may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Legal Proceedings Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation," included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . Executive Officers the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers the Company December , : Michael . Spindler*, President and Chief Executive Officer (age ). . Spindler joined the Company European Marketing Manager September , was promoted Vice President and General Manager, Europe January , was named Vice President, International February , and was promoted Senior Vice President, International Sales and Marketing November . . Spindler was appointed Senior Vice President, International January , Senior Vice President, Apple Europe Division April , and was promoted President, Apple Europe August . While remaining President Apple Europe, . Spindler was also named Senior Vice President Apple Computer, Inc. February . January , . Spindler was promoted Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Apple Computer, Inc., and November was elected President. January , . Spindler was elected member the Company\' Board Directors. . Spindler was appointed the position Chief Executive Officer June . Joseph . Graziano, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ). . Graziano joined the Company June , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. November , . Graziano was elected Executive Vice President, and October , . Graziano was elected member the Company\' Board Directors. Before joining the Company, . Graziano was employed Sun Microsystems, Inc., manufacturer high-performance engineering workstations, Chief Financial Officer from June June . . Graziano also director IntelliCorp, Inc., and StrataCom, Inc. Ian . Diery*, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Personal Computer Division (age ). . Diery joined the Company Senior Vice President Apple and President, Apple Pacific Division October . July , . Diery was promoted Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing. July , . Diery was promoted Executive Vice President and General Manager the Personal Computer Division. Prior joining the Company, . Diery was employed Wang Laboratories, Inc., manufacturer computer systems and related products, from August August , where served various senior management positions, including Senior Vice President USA Operations from December December , and Executive Vice President Worldwide Operations from June August . James . Buckley, Senior Vice President and President, Apple USA (age ). . Buckley joined the Company - and Higher Education Sales Manager May and was promoted Director the same group January . May , . Buckley was named Area Director, North Central Area, appointed Vice President, Central Operations April , was promoted Vice President, Northern Operations May , and was appointed Vice President and General Manager, Higher Education Division April . . Buckley was named Senior Vice President and President, Apple USA January . Daniel . Eilers, Senior Vice President, Apple Computer, Inc., and President and Chief Executive Officer, Claris Corporation (age ). . Eilers joined the Company software product manager June . was promoted Assistant Treasurer , Director Strategic Investments , Vice President, Strategic Investments November , and Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development . March , . Eilers was named Senior Vice President, Apple Computer, Inc., and President and Chief Executive Officer, Claris Corporation. John Floisand, Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific (age ). . Floisand joined the Company May , Director Sales, Apple Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom. October , . Floisand was named Director Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division, and February was promoted Vice President, Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division. . Floisand was named Vice President and President, Apple Pacific August . October , . Floisand was promoted Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific. . Frederick Forsyth, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations (age ). . Forsyth joined the Company June , Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing, Apple Products Division. . Forsyth was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing November , and April was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Systems Division. June , . Forsyth assumed responsibility for Worldwide Operations. Prior joining the Company, . Forsyth was employed Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), manufacturer networked computer systems and associated peripheral equipment, from November June , where served various managerial positions, most recently Group Manager, Low End Systems Manufacturing from November June . David . Nagel, Senior Vice President and General Manager, AppleSoft Division (age ). . Nagel joined the Company June , Manager the Applications Technology Group within the Advanced Technology Group. . Nagel was promoted Manager User Technologies June , Director User Technologies October , and finally Vice President the Advanced Technology Group April . December , . Nagel was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Advanced Technology Group and named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Software Architecture Division January . July , . Nagel was named General Manager the AppleSoft Division. Kevin . Sullivan, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age ). . Sullivan joined the Company April , Vice President, Human Resources. October , . Sullivan was promoted Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Robert . Lauridsen, Vice President, Corporate Development (age ). . Lauridsen joined the Company August , Director, Corporate Development. June , . Lauridsen was promoted Senior Director, Corporate Development and Strategic Investments, and August , was promoted Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior joining the Company, . Lauridsen was employed Booz, Allen, and Hamilton, Inc., consulting firm, where served most recently Vice President, from October August . Jeanne Seeley, Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller (age ). . Seeley joined the Company October , the Controller for the Peripherals Division. June , . Seeley was promoted Senior Controller for the Operations Group, was named Director Finance July , and was promoted Senior Director Finance January . November , . Seeley was promoted Vice President, Finance. . Seeley was appointed Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller May . Edward . Stead, Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary (age ). . Stead joined the Company September , Associate General Counsel. was named Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary the Company June . September , . Stead assumed the additional position Secretary. *Information regarding employment agreements between certain executive officers and the Company set forth the section entitled "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" the Company\' Proxy Statement, which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)" which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements that have been audited Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . (Tabular amounts thousands, except per share amounts) ANNUAL Five fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , Total assets $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Long-term debt $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Deferred tax liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Item . Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. All information based the Company\' fiscal calendar. (Tabular information: Dollars millions, except per share amounts) RESULTS OPERATIONS Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin $ , - % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Operating expenses (excluding restructuring costs) $ , - % $ , -- $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ ( ) - % $ -- -- Percentage net sales ( %) % -- Net income $ % $ - % $ Earnings per share $ % $ - % $ Net Sales Net sales increased $ , million, % fiscal , compared with increase $ million, %, fiscal . The net sales growth over was primarily due two factors: unit sales growth and, lesser extent, increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased % over the prior year. This growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' new Power Macintosh products, first introduced March , , and from sales newer product offerings within the Macintosh Performa line desktop personal computers and, lesser extent, within the PowerBook family notebook personal computers. This growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' more established products and older product versions. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly, primarily due fluctuations product mix throughout the year, despite pricing actions undertaken the Company response continuing industrywide pricing pressures. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased % from , reflecting strong unit sales the Company\' newer product offerings within the Macintosh Quadra, and Performa lines desktop personal computers and within the PowerBook family notebook personal computers. This growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' more established products and older product versions. The average aggregate revenue per unit declined % compared with , primarily result pricing actions undertaken the Company response continuing industrywide pricing pressures. , domestic net sales increased % over the prior year, compared with increase % over . International net sales grew % from , compared with % growth from , primarily result strong sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales both and . Gross Margin Gross margin continued decline percentage net sales from and levels. The gross margin percentage declined % from % . The downward trend gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result pricing and promotional actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pricing pressures. Gross margin was also affected somewhat adversely changes foreign currency exchange rates result stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . Results from the Company\' ongoing foreign currency hedging activities offset portion this adverse foreign currency impact gross margin. Although the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account changes exchange rates over time. The decline gross margin percentage net sales from % % was primarily the result industrywide competitive pressures and associated pricing and promotional actions. Inventory valuation reserves recorded against certain products also contributed the decline gross margin percentage net sales. The Company\' results operations were minimally affected changes foreign currency exchange rates compared with . Although the Company\' gross margin percentage was % for the fourth quarter , resulting primarily from strong sales Power Macintosh computers and the PowerBook series notebook personal computers, anticipated that gross margins will remain under pressure and could fall below prior years\' levels worldwide due variety factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, and compressed product life cycles. Operating Expenses Change Change Research and development $ - % $ % $ Percentage net sales % % % Research and development expenditures decreased amount during compared with and . This decrease reflected the results the Company\' restructuring actions aimed reducing costs, including product development expenditures. The increase research and development expenditures from reflected net additions the Company\' engineering staff and related costs. Research and development expenditures, percentage net sales, decreased since result revenue growth during and , coupled with the Company\' continuing efforts focus its research and development project spending. The Company believes that continued investment research and development critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace, and directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products. Although the Company continues manage operating expense growth relative gross margin levels, anticipates that research and development expenditures will increase slightly amount. Change Change Selling, general and administrative $ , - % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased amount and percentage net sales and compared with and , respectively. These decreases reflect the Company\' ongoing efforts manage operating expense growth relative gross margin levels. , selling, general and administrative expenses decreased amount and percentage net sales compared with , primarily because lower employee-related and facilities costs resulting from the restructuring actions taken the third quarter . addition, revenue growth contributed the decrease selling, general and administrative expenses percentage net sales. General and administrative expenses decreased compared with , primarily because reduced employee-related expenses resulting from the restructuring actions taken the third quarter . This decrease general and administrative expenses was offset slightly increase sales and marketing expenses result increases costs for product marketing and advertising programs related new product introductions and efforts increase product demand. The Company will continue face the challenge managing growth selling, general and administrative expenses relative gross margin levels, particularly light the Company\' expectation continued pressure gross margins and continued competitive pressures worldwide. The Company anticipates increase selling, general and administrative expenses from current levels, primarily resulting from marketing and advertising expenditures. Change Change Restructuring costs $( ) - % $ -- -- Percentage net sales ( %) % -- For information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Change Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ ( ) - % $ - % $ Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million, $ million expense compared with $ million income . Higher interest rates and larger average borrowing balances used fund working capital needs served significantly increase interest expense, and accounted for $ million the $ million increase expenses during . Other factors contributing this variance include interest income, which was higher than primarily due $ million interest payment received non-recurring income tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service , and interest income from the Company\' interest rate risk management program, which contributed $ million , and reduced interest income $ million . Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased amount compared with because lower interest rates, lower cash balances, expenses associated with certain financing transactions, lower gains the sale certain the Company\' venture capital investments, increase the cost hedging certain foreign currency exposures, and increase interest expense due higher commercial paper borrowing levels. This decrease was partially offset interest earned income tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service and gains realized the Company\' ongoing foreign exchange risk management programs. For more information regarding the Company\' strategy and accounting for financial and other derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for Income Taxes Change Change Provision for income taxes $ % $ - % $ Effective tax rate % % % The Company\' effective tax rate remained unchanged , and . For additional information regarding income taxes, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. Product Introductions and Transitions Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products and product enhancements. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, and the manufacturing products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. March , , the Company introduced Power Macintosh, new line Macintosh computers based new PowerPC family RISC microprocessors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition may adversely affected unable successfully complete the transition its lines personal computers and servers from the Motorola series microprocessors the PowerPC microprocessor. The success this ongoing transition will depend the Company\' ability continue sell products based the Motorola series microprocessors while gaining market acceptance the new PowerPC processor-based products, successfully manage inventory levels both product lines simultaneously, and continue coordinate the timely development and distribution independent software vendors new "native" software applications specifically designed for the PowerPC processor-based products. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the anticipated future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and result deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. The preceding may also offset other factors, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply product previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing sharply coincident with introduction, and then reducing sharply once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply product. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European- language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the United States, although localized versions the products may available. Competition The personal computer industry highly competitive and continues characterized consolidations the hardware and software industries, aggressive pricing practices, and downward pressure gross margins. The Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected should the Company unable effectively manage the impact industrywide pricing pressures and continue realize the anticipated cost -reduction benefits associated with the restructuring plan initiated the third quarter . The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability offer customers competitive technologies while effectively managing the impact inventory levels and the potential for customer confusion created product proliferation. November , , the Company reached agreement with International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) and Motorola, Inc. new hardware reference platform for the PowerPC microprocessor that intended deliver much wider range operating system and application choices for computer customers. result this agreement, the Company intends port the Macintosh operating system the common platform. Accordingly, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability implement this and certain other collaboration agreements entered into, and manage the associated competitive risk. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability increase market share its personal computer business. Currently, the Company the only maker hardware that uses the Macintosh operating system, and has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the -DOS (registered trademark) and Microsoft Windows( ) operating systems. Certain the Company\' personal computer products are capable running software designed for the -DOS Windows operating system, through software emulation Intel microprocessor chips (except for one product, which does means coprocessor card). Optimal performance the Company\' products obtained use software specifically designed for the Company\' products, either those based the Motorola series microprocessors those based the PowerPC microprocessor. However, result the collaboration agreement noted the preceding paragraph, the Company will have the opportunity increase its market share the personal computer business the Macintosh operating system becomes available computers based the new hardware reference platform. Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed -DOS Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part the third- party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. This analysis based factors such the relative market share the Company\' products, the anticipated potential revenue that may earned, and the costs developing such software products. effort increase overall market share, the Company plans license the Macintosh operating system other personal computer vendors beginning . The Company anticipates that the licensing activities will result variety these vendors bringing market personal computers that will run application software based the Macintosh operating system. The Company also believes that licensing will offer software vendors broader installed base which they can develop and provide technical innovations for the Macintosh platform. this time, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that licensing the Macintosh operating system will have its sales results operations. Microsoft Corporation the developer the -DOS and Windows operating systems, which are the principal competing operating systems the Company\' Macintosh operating system. Microsoft also important developer application software for the Company\' products. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Company\' products may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests operating system vendor. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers the new PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain the Company\' products, continue supply the Company microprocessors which produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, the developer and producer the microprocessors used most personal computers using the -DOS and Windows operating systems. IBM produces personal computers based the Intel microprocessors well the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Macintosh operating system. Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with improved versions microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability successfully expand its new businesses and product offerings into other markets, such the markets for -line services and personal digital assistant (PDA) products. Global Market Risks large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operations and financial results could significantly affected international factors, such changes foreign currency exchange rates weak economic conditions the foreign markets which the Company distributes its products. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). mitigate the short-term impact fluctuating currency exchange rates the Company\' non- . dollar-based sales, product procurement, and operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non- . dollar-based exposures. Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts hedge firmly committed transactions. Currently, hedges firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. Hedges probable, but not firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. reduce the costs associated with these ongoing foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for hedges, including all transactions intended reduce the costs associated with the Company\' foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. While the Company exposed with respect the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well interest paid its short-term borrowings and long-term debt. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap and option transactions. Certain these swaps are intended better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. The Company also enters into interest rate swap, swaption, and option transactions order extend the effective duration portion its cash, cash equivalent, and short-term investment portfolios. These swaps may extend the Company\' cash investment horizon maximum effective duration three years. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, swaption, and option positions stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate- related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. such, the Company\' operating results and financial position may adversely affected. Inventory The Company\' products include certain components, such specific microprocessors manufactured Motorola, Inc., that are currently available only from single sources. Any availability limitations, interruptions supplies, price increases these and other components could adversely affect the Company\' business and financial results. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also adversely affected the Company\' ability manage inventory levels and lead times required obtain components order more responsive short-term shifts customer demand patterns. addition, anticipated unit sales growth for new and current product offerings not realized, inventory valuation reserves may necessary that would adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Marketing and Distribution number uncertainties exist regarding the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company\' primary means distribution through third-party computer resellers. However, response changing industry practices and customer preferences, the Company continuing its expansion into various consumer channels, such mass-merchandise stores (for example, Sears and Wal-Mart), consumer electronics outlets, and computer superstores. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these sellers weakens sellers within consumer channels decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Other Factors The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. The Company plans replace its current transaction systems (which include order management, distribution, manufacturing, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected its ability implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net short-term borrowings $ $ $ , Working capital $ , $ , $ , Cash generated (used for) operations $ $ ( ) $ Cash used for investment activities, excluding short-term investments $ $ $ Cash generated (used for) financing activities $ ( ) $ $ ( ) The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net short-term borrowings, increased $ million September , , from $ million September , . This increase reflects $ million issuance ten-year unsecured notes, the proceeds which replaced portion the Company\' short-term financing. The improvement the Company\' financial condition was also attributable the Company\' continued efforts increase profit levels and manage working capital, particularly the area inventory management. More cash was generated operations compared with , primarily because significant decrease inventory levels, well increased sales levels. The significant decrease inventory levels during resulted from improved inventory management, higher sales levels attributable various pricing and promotional actions, and strong sales new product inventory which had been built preparation for the introduction Power Macintosh. Profit levels improved operating expenses decreased due the Company\' implementation restructuring actions initiated the third quarter . Cash generated operations was partially offset cash used for restructuring and increase accounts receivable. The increase accounts receivable reflected increase sales levels achieved during . The balance accrued restructuring costs decreased the restructuring actions initiated the third quarter continued implemented. addition, the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. More cash was used for operations compared with , primarily because significant increase inventory levels; decreases net income, income taxes payable, and other current liabilities; and increase accounts receivable levels. Cash used for operations was offset slightly increases accrued restructuring costs and accounts payable. Inventory increased substantially during result higher levels purchased parts, work process, and finished goods inventory support expanded product line and distribution channels and anticipated higher sales volumes. The decrease net income resulted primarily from reduction gross margins and the restructuring charge included operating expenses for the third quarter. The reduction earnings also contributed the decrease income taxes payable. Other current liabilities decreased the Company continued manage operating expense levels. The increase accounts receivable corresponded the higher sales levels achieved compared with , coupled with slower collections resulting from economic pressures the reseller industry, and the Company\' expansion into consumer channels, where payment terms are generally longer. These uses cash were offset slightly increases accrued restructuring costs result the Company\' plan restructure its operations worldwide and increases accounts payable, reflecting the higher level inventory purchases. Excluding short-term investments, net cash used for investments declined compared with and levels. Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and was primarily made increases land, buildings, machinery, and equipment. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures will slightly above expenditures. The Company leases the majority its facilities and certain its equipment under noncancelable operating leases. , rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million. The Company\' future lease commitments are discussed page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company\' balance long-term debt increased during due the issuance $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes under omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration was for the registration debt and other securities for aggregate offering amount $ million. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi- annually and mature February , . The % fixed-rate was subsequently effectively converted floating-rate through ten-year interest rate swaps based the six-month . dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The impact the swaps during was reduce the % fixed-rate yield % yield. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements generally does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. anticipated that any margin the Company may required post the future would not have material adverse effect the Company\' liquidity position. Short-term borrowings September , , were approximately $ million lower than September , , the proceeds from the issuance $ million long-term debt were used pay down the balance short-term borrowings. The Company\' short-term borrowings reflect borrowings made under its commercial paper program and short-term uncommitted bid-line arrangements with certain commercial banks. particular, Apple Japan, Inc., wholly owned subsidiary the Company, incurred short-term yen-denominated borrowings from several Japanese banks during , the balance which aggregated the . dollar equivalent approximately $ million September , . During the first quarter , the Company also entered into -day $ million committed revolving credit facility which terminated December , , with syndicate banks primarily support its commercial paper program. borrowings were made under this facility. The Company expects that will continue incur short- and long-term borrowings from time time finance . working capital needs and capital expenditures, because substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries, generally . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated. Refer the Income Taxes footnote pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company believes that its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations and short- and long-term borrowing capabilities, will sufficient meet its operating cash requirements short- and long-term basis. Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Income for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Financial Statement Schedules: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Amounts receivable from related parties and underwriters, promoters and employees other than related parties - Schedule VIII - Valuation and qualifying accounts and reserves - Schedule - Short-term borrowings - Schedule - Supplementary income statement information - All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements income, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed the Index Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedules based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars thousands) September , , and September , Assets: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ , ($ , ) , , , , Inventories , , , , Deferred tax assets , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings , , Machinery and equipment , , Office furniture and equipment , , Leasehold improvements , , , , , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Net property, plant, and equipment , , Other assets , , $ , , $ , , Liabilities and Shareholders\' Equity: Current liabilities: Short-term borrowings $ , $ , Accounts payable , , Accrued compensation and employee benefits , , Accrued marketing and distribution , , Accrued restructuring costs , , Other current liabilities , , Total current liabilities , , , , Long-term debt , , Deferred tax liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares ) , , Retained earnings , , , , Accumulated translation adjustment ( , ) ( , ) Total shareholders\' equity , , , , $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Income ( thousands, except per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Costs and expenses: Cost sales , , , , , , Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , , , , Restructuring costs ( , ) , -- , , , , , , Operating income , , , Interest and other income (expense), net ( , ) , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $. $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share , , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity ( thousands, except per share amounts) Accu- mulated Notes Trans- Receivable Total lation from Share- Common Stock Retained Adjust- Share- holders\' Shares Amount Earnings ment holders Equity Balance September , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , , -- -- -- , Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Repayment notes receivable from shareholders -- -- -- -- , , Cash dividends $. per common share -- -- ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- , -- , Net income -- -- , -- -- , Balance September , , , , , -- , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , , -- -- -- , Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Cash dividends $. per common share -- -- ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- ( , ) -- ( , ) Net income -- -- , -- -- , Balance September , , , , , ( , ) -- , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , , -- -- -- , Cash dividends $. per common share -- -- ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- , -- , Net income -- -- , -- -- , Balance September , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ -- $ , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows ( thousands) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period $ , $ , $ , Operations: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated (used for) operations: Depreciation and amortization , , , Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements , , , Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Inventories , ( , ) , Deferred tax assets ( , ) ( , ) , Other current assets , ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable , , , Income taxes payable , ( , ) , Accrued restructuring costs ( , ) , ( , ) Other current liabilities , ( , ) , Deferred tax liabilities , , , Cash generated (used for) operations , ( , ) , Investments: Purchase short-term investments ( , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) Proceeds from sale short-term investments , , , , , Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cash generated (used for) investment activities ( , ) , ( , ) Financing: Increase (decrease) short-term borrowings ( , ) , , Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings , ( , ) ( ) Increases common stock, net related tax benefits and changes notes receivable from shareholders , , , Repurchase common stock -- ( , ) ( , ) Cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other -- ( , ) -- Cash generated (used for) financing activities ( , ) , ( , ) Total cash generated (used) , , ( , ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the period $ , , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for: Interest $ , $ , $ , Income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Schedule non-cash transactions: Tax benefit from stock options $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Summary Significant Accounting Policies _________________________________________________________________________ Basis Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. Foreign Currency Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation are accumulated separate component shareholders\' equity until the foreign entity sold liquidated. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included the consolidated statements income. Financial Instruments All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings that are intended indefinitely invested. The Company has not elected early adoption Financial Accounting Standard . (FAS ), "Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities". FAS becomes effective beginning with the Company\' first quarter fiscal year . The principal impact the new statement replace the historical cost accounting approach for certain investments debt and equity securities with one based fair value. The Company does not expect adoption FAS have material effect its financial position results operations. For further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment other financial and derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes Effective September , , the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standard . (FAS ), "Accounting for Income Taxes," which changes the method accounting for income taxes from the deferred method the liability method. This change accounting principle has been adopted prospective basis, and the financial statements years ended prior September , , have not been restated. The cumulative effect the change was not material. Under FAS , deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. Under FAS , the effect deferred tax assets and liabilities change tax rates recognized income the period that includes the enactment date. Prior , the Company accounted for income taxes under the provisions APB Opinion . , which recognized deferred taxes for the effect timing differences between pretax accounting income and taxable income. Under the deferred method APB Opinion . , deferred taxes were not adjusted for subsequent changes tax rates. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries. intended that these earnings will indefinitely invested operations outside the United States. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely invested earnings, the Company provides federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Earnings per Share Earnings per share are computed using the weighted average number common and dilutive common equivalent shares attributable stock options outstanding during the period. Loss per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding during the period. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight- line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements Cash Flows, Industry Segment and Geographic Information, and Income Taxes footnotes have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Financial Instruments ___________________________________________________________________________ Financial Instruments With Off-Balance-Sheet Risk the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off- balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, including interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. Interest Rate Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate derivatives, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, and options, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. These instruments are also used extend the effective duration portion the Company\' short-term investment portfolio maximum duration three years, and diversify portion its exposure away from changes . interest rates. Foreign Currency Instruments The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge substantially all its material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company does not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal dollar value terms their high correlation with the . dollar. Anticipated transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The duration these anticipated hedging transactions does not exceed one year. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase foreign exchange option contracts used hedge both firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. Fair Value, Notional Principal, and Credit Risk Amounts The table below shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then- current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. ( millions) ( ) Credit Credit Notional Fair Risk Notional Fair Risk Principal Value Amount Principal Value Amount Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ $ ( ) -- -- -- -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot / Forward contracts $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ $ ( ) -- $ --( ) -- Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps -- -- -- $ --( ) -- Sold options $ --( ) -- $ --( ) -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot / Forward contracts $ --( ) --( ) $ $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ , $ ( ) -- $ , $( ) -- ( ) Adjusted conform with current year presentation. ( ) Fair value less than $ million. The interest rate swaps shown above generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest based two-, three-, and ten-year swap rates without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. Maturity dates for interest rate swaps currently range from one ten years. Interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. All interest rate option contracts outstanding September , , expire within months. Interest rate contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income. Unrealized gains and losses interest rate contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized losses such agreements totaled approximately $ million September , , primarily reflecting the net present value unrealized losses the ten-year swap contracts, which effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten- year debt floating-rate debt. There were deferred gains and losses interest rate contracts September , . The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Unrealized gains and losses foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Deferred gains and losses such agreements September , , and September , , were immaterial. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. Purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment are reported the balance sheet the premium cost, which amortized over the life the option. Unrealized gains and losses these option contracts are deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction and recognized component the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such agreements were immaterial September , , and September , . Maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts range from one twelve months. Purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts that not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are carried fair value and, such, are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Gains and losses associated with these financial instruments are recorded currently income. September , , maturity dates for these sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based upon applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Other Financial Instruments The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' other financial instruments are follows: ( millions) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Amount Value Amount Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ $ Short-term investments $ $ $ $ Short-term borrowings $ $ $ $ Long-term debt: Ten-year unsecured notes $ $ -- -- Other $ $ $ $ Short-term investments are carried cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value. The carrying amount short-term borrowings approximates their fair value due their short-term maturities. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market value September , . Concentrations Credit Risk _________________________________________________________________________ The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the amount agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' long- term debt. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements generally does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. Inventories Inventories consist the following: ( thousands) Purchased parts $ , $ , Work process , , Finished goods , , $ , , $ , , Borrowings _________________________________________________________________________ ( thousands) Short-Term Borrowings Commercial paper $ , $ , Notes payable banks , -- $ , $ , The weighted average interest rates for commercial paper borrowings September , , and September , , were approximately % and %, respectively. The weighted average interest rate for the Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , was approximately %. Interest expense short-term borrowings was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. December , , the Company entered into -day $ million committed revolving-credit facility with syndicate banks primarily support its commercial paper program. This facility terminated December , . borrowings were made under this facility. The cost this facility was immaterial. Long-Term Debt February , , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes under the Company\' $ million omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . Interest expense the ten-year unsecured notes for the year ended September , , was approximately $ million. Other long-term debt approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively, and the related interest expense each the three years ended September , , was immaterial. For information regarding the Company\' estimated fair value short- and long-term debt, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Operations ________________________________________________________________________ the third quarter , the Company initiated plan restructure its operations worldwide order address the competitive conditions the personal computer industry, including the increased market demand for lower-priced products. connection with this plan, the Company recorded $ million charge operating expenses ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). The restructuring costs included $ million estimated employee-related expenses and $ million estimated facilities, equipment, and other expenses associated with the consolidation operations and the relocation and termination certain operations and employees. The restructuring plan originally contemplated the termination relocation approximately , employees worldwide and the reduction worldwide office space, which primarily consisted approximately million square feet office space the San Francisco Bay Area, within one year from the date the restructuring was initiated. the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the total costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. addition, some actions were completed lower cost than originally estimated. The most significant element the adjustment was associated with $ million costs accrued terminate move number employees from the San Francisco Bay Area lower-cost location. This element the Company\' restructuring plan was expected result the termination relocation approximately , employees and the closure certain leased facilities, cost $ million and $ million, respectively. However, the expected benefits this move were reduced since the plan\' inception because changes the cost differential between the Company\' current and alternative locations. For example, the Company favorably renegotiated the lease terms certain facilities its current locations, the salary growth rate differentials between the Bay Area and alternative locations were reduced, and recent changes the California income tax laws made more attractive for companies business California. The Company canceled this action the third quarter , when management decided that the extended estimated pay- back period longer justified the initial cash investment and the unquantifiable cost business disruption that such move would precipitate. the end fiscal year , approximately , employees had been terminated and approximately had been relocated, and the Company had reduced its use office space the Bay Area approximately , square feet. the time the restructuring was announced, management had publicly set goal reducing operating costs below $ million per quarter and increasing sales significantly achieve acceptable profitability. These goals were met the end the third quarter fiscal . The Company continues search for ways permanently reduce its cost structure. Although the Company has achieved lower level operating expenses without fully implementing all the restructuring actions originally planned, there can assurance that this level operating expenses will maintained the future. For example, operating expenses (excluding restructure) were reduced $ million, %, compared with , despite increase net sales %. September , , the Company had $ million accrued restructuring costs for actions that are currently under way and expected completed during . Approximately $ million this accrual represents cash charges primarily for estimated facilities, equipment, and other expenses, the majority which are expected incurred during . Cash spending beyond one year primarily relates approximately $ million recurring payments under certain noncancelable operating leases. The following table depicts roll-forward reconciliation the activity the restructuring accrual balance from September , , September , : ( thousands) Balance Balance Sept. , Adjust- Sept. , Category Spending ments Employee termination payments( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Other costs relating terminated employees ( ) , , , -- Provisions relating employees who will not terminated ( ) , , , , Termination payments for leases and other contracts ( ) , , , , Write-down operating assets sold ( ) , , , , Provisions for litigation ( ) , -- , , & project cancelations ( ) , , , , Other provisions and write-downs ( ) , , , , accrued restructuring costs ( ) , , , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash; ( ): Both cash and noncash Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net ___________________________________________________________________________ Interest and other income (expense), net, consists the following: ( thousands) Interest income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Discount foreign exchange instruments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net , , , $ ( , ) $ , $ , Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consists the following: ( thousands) FAS Method APB Method Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred , ( , ) , , ( , ) , State: Current , , , Deferred , , , , , Foreign: Current , , , Deferred , , , , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. The tax benefit credited directly common stock result compensation expense attributable employee stock option and purchase plans recognized differently for financial reporting and tax purposes was $ million . discussed the Summary Significant Accounting Policies, the Company adopted FAS effective the beginning the fiscal year ended September , . Prior , the Company accounted for income taxes under the provisions APB Opinion . . Under FAS , deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( thousands) September , Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ , Accrued liabilities and other reserves , Basis capital assets and investments , Total deferred tax assets , Less: Valuation allowance , Net deferred tax assets , Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries , Other , Total deferred tax liabilities , Net deferred tax liability $ , The net change the total valuation allowance for the year ended September , , was increase $ million. Under APB Opinion . , deferred income taxes result from timing differences between years the recognition certain revenue and expense items for financial and tax reporting purposes. The sources timing differences and the related tax effects for and are follows: ( thousands) Income foreign subsidiaries not taxable current year $ , $ , Warranty, bad debt, and other expenses ( , ) , Depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Inventory valuation ( , ) ( , ) State income taxes , ( , ) Other individually immaterial items , , Total deferred taxes $ ( , ) $ , reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , % , and % ) income before income taxes, follows: FAS Method APB Method Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal benefit , , , Research and development tax credit ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Valuation allowance , -- -- Other individually immaterial items , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Internal Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made prepayments thereon. The Company has contested these alleged deficiencies and pursuing administrative and judicial remedies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. Common Stock _________________________________________________________________________ Shareholder Rights Plan May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( Right) for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . Stock Option Plans The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the Plan) and Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the Plan). The Stock Option Plan terminated October . Options granted before that date remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over varying periods, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. The Plan permits the granting nonstatutory options certain officers the Company purchase Apple common stock prices not less than % the fair market value the date grant. Options under the Plan are generally not exercisable for months after the date grant, and then become exercisable varying rates over the subsequent seven years, based continued service the Company. Summarized information regarding the Company\' stock option plans September , , follows: ( thousands, except per share amounts) Number Price Per Shares Share Outstanding September , , $ - $ Granted , Exercised ( , ) $ -$ Expired canceled ( , ) Outstanding September , , $ - $ Exercisable , Reserved for issuance , Available for future grant , Restricted Stock Plan April , , the Company\' Board Directors approved Restricted Stock Plan for officers the Company (the RSP), which became effective July , . The RSP was subsequently ratified the shareholders January , . The RSP designed provide incentive for officers continue own shares the Company\' common stock acquired upon exercise options under any the Company\' Stock Option Plans, thus more closely aligning officers\' financial interests with those the shareholders. The RSP provides that officers who exercise stock options and continue hold the exercised shares for least three years will receive three Awards shares restricted stock. Each such Award for one-third the number shares held for the requisite retention period. Each restricted stock Award granted pursuant the plan becomes fully vested three years after the grant date, provided that the officer maintains continuous employment with the Company and that other vesting requirements are met. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan) under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning end the offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Stock Repurchase Programs November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. shares were repurchased under this authorization , while approximately million shares were repurchased under this authorization . September , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. During and , the Company repurchased the remaining shares under this authorization, which approximated million and million shares, respectively. Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective July , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior July , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million and $ million each and . Preferred Stock _________________________________________________________________________ Five million shares preferred stock have been authorized for issuance one more series. The Board Directors authorized fix the number and designation any such series and determine the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions granted imposed any such series. Commitments and Contingencies ___________________________________________________________________________ Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms five ten years and generally provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under these noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( thousands) $ , , , , , Later years , Total minimum lease payments $ , Leases for facilities that were subject the Company\' restructuring actions initiated the third quarter and the third quarter are included the preceding table. Future lease payments associated with these facilities were provided for the Company\' restructuring reserves recorded and , and therefore not represent future operating expenses. Minimum lease payments may decline the future, the leases for facilities subject restructuring actions are terminated otherwise completed. For additional information regarding restructuring operations, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. January , wholly owned subsidiary the Company exercised its option purchase, for $ million, the remaining partnership interest the Cupertino Gateway Partners partnership, general partnership, which owns the Company\' campus-type office facilities located Cupertino, California (the "Campus"). result this purchase, the Company\' wholly owned subsidiary now owns % the right, title, and interest the Campus, opposed % investment the partnership held the prior year. Because this purchase, future minimum lease payments the partnership approximately $ million have been excluded from the preceding table. Litigation Apple . Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company March , the Company filed suit the . District Court for the Northern District California (the Court) against Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) and Hewlett-Packard Company ( ), alleging that their Microsoft Windows and NewWave computer programs infringe the Company\' audiovisual copyrights protecting the Macintosh user interface. August , , the district court entered final judgment for Microsoft and , dismissing the Company\' action. September , , the Court denied defendants\' motions for award full defense costs and attorneys\' fees under . Section , but allowed defendants renew their motions should the Supreme Court alter the standard for the award attorneys\' fees copyright cases the case Fogerty . Fantasy, Inc., . . ( ). ------------------ September , , the Company appealed the case the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. September , , the Court Appeals issued its decision affirming the district court judgment the merits but remanding the case the issue attorney\' fees light the Fogerty decision. The Company plans file petition for writ ------- ------- certiorari the Supreme Court the United States. - ---------- Apple Securities Litigation ( ) , number civil class action complaints relating the June drop price Apple stock were filed . District Court against the Company and certain its officers and directors, alleging violations federal securities laws for alleged material misrepresentations and omissions fact concerning the Company\' business. The cases were subsequently consolidated into Apple ------------- Securities Litigation, Civ. . - - -RPA(EAI). These suits were - ---------------------- filed behalf the named plaintiffs and all others who purchased the Company\' common stock between October , , and July , . Plaintiffs seek award damages according proof, with interest. State Court Shareholders Action , certain derivative class action complaints relating the June drop price Apple stock were filed against the Company, nominal defendant, and certain its officers and directors. The suits allege violations California law. September , , all parties entered into stipulation that consolidated the derivative actions and stayed them their entirety until the conclusion the class action litigation. Lemelson . Apple September , , Jerome Lemelson filed complaint against the Company the . District Court, District Nevada, which complaint was amended April , , alleging infringement two patents relating information storage and retrieval systems. . Lemelson seeks injunctive relief, damages unspecified amount, and award attorneys\' fees and costs. The case set for trial January . Grant . Apple February , , Richard . Grant filed complaint against the Company the . District Court for the Central District California alleging infringement natural-language patent. This matter has been resolved. The Company believes the suits cited above without merit and intends vigorously defend against these actions. The Company believes the resolution all these matters will not have material adverse effect its financial condition and results operations reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing unfavorable resolution these lawsuits, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flow could materially affected particular period. Industry Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. Geographic financial information follows: ( thousands) Net sales unaffiliated customers: United States $ , , $ , , $ , , Europe , , , , , , Pacific , , , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): United States $ , $ , $ , Europe , , , Pacific , , , , , , Other countries -- , , Total transfers $ , , $ , , $ , , Operating income (loss): United States $ , $ ( , ) $ , Europe , , , Pacific , , , Other countries , , , Eliminations ( , ) ( , ) , Corporate income (expense), net ( , ) , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , Identifiable assets: United States $ , , $ , , $ , , Europe , , , Pacific , , , Other countries , , , Eliminations ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Corporate assets , , , , , Total assets $ , , $ , , $ , , "Other countries" consists Canada and Australia. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year presentation. Net sales unaffiliated customers based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charge and adjustment recorded and , respectively, are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, joint venture investments, and short-term investments. Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Tabular amounts thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ , $( , ) $ , $ , Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share $ $ ( ) $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined quarterly the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net income for the third quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Net loss for the third quarter includes restructuring charge $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Item . Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . Item . Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions", "Report the Compensation Committee and Stock Option Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions", and "Report the Compensation Committee and Stock Option Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedules The financial statement schedules the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Note due . Credit Agreement between the Registrant and certain lenders dated December , . * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K ** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K ** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K ** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant ** Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . 91K ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ** Senior / Executive Bonus Plan. 91K ** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. 90K ** Employment Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated May , between the Registrant and Fred Forsyth. 90K- ** Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated February , between the Registrant and Soren Olsson. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Robert Puette. 91K ** Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan 93K ** Separation Agreement dated October , between the Registrant and John Sculley. 93K ** Separation Agreement dated November , between the Registrant and Albert . Eisenstat. 93K ** Separation Agreement and Consulting Services Agreement dated October , and December , , respectively, between the Registrant and Robert Puette. * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCA Corporation (later renamed "Taligent, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. - - Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCB Corporation (later renamed "Kaleida Labs, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. - - Agreement for Licensing IBM Compilers and Tools dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for the Mac AIX Compiler. - - Development and License Agreement dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for Mac- -AIX. - - Agreement for Development and Licensing AIX and AIXwindows dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Enterprise Interoperability Master Task Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and IBM. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Lease Agreement dated November , between TGL Associates and the Registrant, amended Modification Lease Agreement dated March , . 92K Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement dated July , between ACI Real Properties, Inc. and Sobrato Development Company # . * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) - 92K Agreement amending Cupertino Gateway Partners General Partnership Agreement dated November , . Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Partners and the Registrant. - 92K First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. NOTES ( ) Copies these lease agreements have been omitted because they are substantially identical all material respects the Lease Agreement filed Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , except set forth Schedule attached such Exhibit . ( ) Copies these amendments have been omitted because they are substantially identical all material respects the First Amendment Lease Agreement filed Exhibit - . 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 90K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 90K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Current Report Form - dated October , (the "October Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . NOTES (continued) - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedules See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedules Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER MICHAEL . SPINDLER President and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael . Spindler, Joseph . Graziano, and Edward . Stead, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER / / JOSEPH . GRAZIANO MICHAEL . SPINDLER JOSEPH . GRAZIANO President and Executive Vice President Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Executive Officer), (Principal Financial Officer), and Director and Director December , December , / / JEANNE SEELEY / / ARMAS . MARKKULA, . JEANNE SEELEY ARMAS . MARKKULA, . Vice President, Finance, and Chairman the Board Corporate Controller and Director December , December , / / PETER . CRISP / / BERNARD GOLDSTEIN PETER . CRISP BERNARD GOLDSTEIN Director Director December , December , / / . JURGEN HINTZ / / KATHERINE HUDSON . JURGEN HINTZ KATHERINE HUDSON Director Director December , December , SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES NOTES RECEIVABLE FROM SHAREHOLDERS ( thousands) Balance Balance Beginning End Name Debtor Period Additions Collections Period Notes* Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , John Sculley $ , $ $ , $ -- ( )( ) The above Notes Receivable from Shareholders are presented deduction from shareholders\' equity since they are related the sale Common Stock the Company officers, directors, and employees under stock option and purchase plans. Notes Receivable from Shareholders does not include accrued interest. The notes receivable are secured pledge the shares issued, less the pro rata release the Company pledged shares based the percentage the principal amount the notes paid. The notes bear interest % per annum. *Footnotes appear page - . - SCHEDULE (continued) OTHER ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE ( thousands) Balance Amounts Balance Beginning Written End Period Additions Collections Off Period Notes* Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , Donald Casey $ $ -- $ -- $ $ -- Paul Gavarini -- -- -- James Mullen -- -- -- $ $ -- $ $ $ -- Year Ended September , Donald Casey $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ Paul Gavarini -- -- -- James Mullen -- -- John Sculley , , -- -- ( )( ) $ , $ $ , $ -- $ The above Other Accounts Receivable bore interest from % % and were payable various dates through April , . NOTES ( ) Director the Company the end the period indicated. ( ) Executive Officer the Company the end the period indicated. - SCHEDULE VIII APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( thousands) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses Deductions( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , ____________ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS ( thousands) Weighted Maximum Average Average Category Weighted Amount Amount Interest Aggregate Average Outstanding Outstanding Rate Short-term Year-end Interest During the During the During the Borrowings( ) Balance Rate Year Year ( ) Year ( ) Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , , $ , % Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , $ , % Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , $ , % __________ ( ) Short-term represent borrowings under various borrowing arrangements, including bank borrowings and unsecured commercial paper borrowings. ( ) The average amount outstanding during the period was computed dividing the sum the daily balances the period the number days the period. ( ) The weighted average interest rate during the period was computed dividing interest expense related the borrowings the average amount outstanding during the year. - SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION ( thousands) Fiscal Year Ended September , September , September , Advertising $ , $ , $ , Advertising includes all direct costs advertising various media and outside advertising agencies. Maintenance and repairs, taxes other than payroll and income taxes, amortization intangible assets, and royalties are not reported none such items exceeded % total net sales shown the related consolidated statements income. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Note due . ( ) Credit Agreement between the Registrant and certain lenders dated December , . ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. Senior / Executive Bonus Plan. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Employment Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ( ) Employment Agreement dated May , between the Registrant and Fred Forsyth. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , between the Registrant and Soren Olsson. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Robert Puette. ( ) Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan ( ) Separation Agreement dated October , between the Registrant and John Sculley. ( ) Separation Agreement dated November , between the Registrant and Albert . Eisenstat. ( ) Separation Agreement and Consulting Services Agreement dated October , and December , , respectively, between the Registrant and Robert Puette. ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCA Corporation (later renamed "Taligent, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCB Corporation (later renamed "Kaleida Labs, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Agreement for Licensing IBM Compilers and Tools dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for the Mac AIX Compiler. ( ) Development and License Agreement dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for Mac- -AIX. ( ) Agreement for Development and Licensing AIX and AIXwindows dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Enterprise Interoperability Master Task Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. ( ) Lease Agreement dated November , between TGL Associates and the Registrant, amended Modification Lease Agreement dated March , . ( ) Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement dated July , between ACI Real Properties, Inc. and Sobrato Development Company # . - ( ) Agreement amending Cupertino Gateway Partners General Partnership Agreement dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Partners and the Registrant. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'Properties The Company\' headquarters are located Cupertino, California. The Company has manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Sacramento, California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore. September , , the Company leased approximately million square feet space, primarily the United States, and lesser extent, Europe and the Pacific. Leases are generally for terms five ten years, and usually provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Certain these leased facilities are subject the Company\' restructuring actions initiated the third quarter both and . The amount space leased the Company may decline the future the leases for facilities subject restructuring actions are terminated pursuant agreements with landlords expire scheduled. The Company owns its manufacturing facilities Fountain, Colorado, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately , square feet. The Company also owns , square-foot facility Sacramento, California, which used manufacturing, service and support center. The Company also owns the research and development facility located Cupertino, California, and centralized domestic data center Napa, California which approximate , and , square feet, respectively. Outside the United States, the Company owns facility Apeldoorn, Netherlands, which used primarily for distribution, totaling approximately , square feet, addition certain other international facilities, totaling approximately , square feet. The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well maintained and good operating condition. The Company has invested additional internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore believes has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future. The Company continues make investments capital equipment needed meet anticipated demand for its products. Information regarding critical business operations that are located near major earthquake faults set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding the Company\' purchase its remaining partnership interest Cupertino Gateway Partners, formed for the purpose constructing the campus-type office facility that now wholly owned the Company, may found Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 3. ': 'Legal Proceedings Information regarding legal proceedings set forth Part , Item this Form - under the subheading "Litigation," included under the heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 4. ': 'Submission Matters Vote Security Holders matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter the Company\' fiscal year ended September , . Executive Officers the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers the Company December , : Michael . Spindler*, President and Chief Executive Officer (age ). . Spindler joined the Company European Marketing Manager September , was promoted Vice President and General Manager, Europe January , was named Vice President, International February , and was promoted Senior Vice President, International Sales and Marketing November . . Spindler was appointed Senior Vice President, International January , Senior Vice President, Apple Europe Division April , and was promoted President, Apple Europe August . While remaining President Apple Europe, . Spindler was also named Senior Vice President Apple Computer, Inc. February . January , . Spindler was promoted Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Apple Computer, Inc., and November was elected President. January , . Spindler was elected member the Company\' Board Directors. . Spindler was appointed the position Chief Executive Officer June . Joseph . Graziano, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (age ). . Graziano joined the Company June , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. November , . Graziano was elected Executive Vice President, and October , . Graziano was elected member the Company\' Board Directors. Before joining the Company, . Graziano was employed Sun Microsystems, Inc., manufacturer high-performance engineering workstations, Chief Financial Officer from June June . . Graziano also director IntelliCorp, Inc., and StrataCom, Inc. Ian . Diery*, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Personal Computer Division (age ). . Diery joined the Company Senior Vice President Apple and President, Apple Pacific Division October . July , . Diery was promoted Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing. July , . Diery was promoted Executive Vice President and General Manager the Personal Computer Division. Prior joining the Company, . Diery was employed Wang Laboratories, Inc., manufacturer computer systems and related products, from August August , where served various senior management positions, including Senior Vice President USA Operations from December December , and Executive Vice President Worldwide Operations from June August . James . Buckley, Senior Vice President and President, Apple USA (age ). . Buckley joined the Company - and Higher Education Sales Manager May and was promoted Director the same group January . May , . Buckley was named Area Director, North Central Area, appointed Vice President, Central Operations April , was promoted Vice President, Northern Operations May , and was appointed Vice President and General Manager, Higher Education Division April . . Buckley was named Senior Vice President and President, Apple USA January . Daniel . Eilers, Senior Vice President, Apple Computer, Inc., and President and Chief Executive Officer, Claris Corporation (age ). . Eilers joined the Company software product manager June . was promoted Assistant Treasurer , Director Strategic Investments , Vice President, Strategic Investments November , and Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development . March , . Eilers was named Senior Vice President, Apple Computer, Inc., and President and Chief Executive Officer, Claris Corporation. John Floisand, Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific (age ). . Floisand joined the Company May , Director Sales, Apple Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom. October , . Floisand was named Director Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division, and February was promoted Vice President, Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division. . Floisand was named Vice President and President, Apple Pacific August . October , . Floisand was promoted Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific. . Frederick Forsyth, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations (age ). . Forsyth joined the Company June , Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing, Apple Products Division. . Forsyth was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing November , and April was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Systems Division. June , . Forsyth assumed responsibility for Worldwide Operations. Prior joining the Company, . Forsyth was employed Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), manufacturer networked computer systems and associated peripheral equipment, from November June , where served various managerial positions, most recently Group Manager, Low End Systems Manufacturing from November June . David . Nagel, Senior Vice President and General Manager, AppleSoft Division (age ). . Nagel joined the Company June , Manager the Applications Technology Group within the Advanced Technology Group. . Nagel was promoted Manager User Technologies June , Director User Technologies October , and finally Vice President the Advanced Technology Group April . December , . Nagel was promoted Senior Vice President and General Manager, Advanced Technology Group and named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh Software Architecture Division January . July , . Nagel was named General Manager the AppleSoft Division. Kevin . Sullivan, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age ). . Sullivan joined the Company April , Vice President, Human Resources. October , . Sullivan was promoted Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Robert . Lauridsen, Vice President, Corporate Development (age ). . Lauridsen joined the Company August , Director, Corporate Development. June , . Lauridsen was promoted Senior Director, Corporate Development and Strategic Investments, and August , was promoted Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior joining the Company, . Lauridsen was employed Booz, Allen, and Hamilton, Inc., consulting firm, where served most recently Vice President, from October August . Jeanne Seeley, Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller (age ). . Seeley joined the Company October , the Controller for the Peripherals Division. June , . Seeley was promoted Senior Controller for the Operations Group, was named Director Finance July , and was promoted Senior Director Finance January . November , . Seeley was promoted Vice President, Finance. . Seeley was appointed Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller May . Edward . Stead, Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary (age ). . Stead joined the Company September , Associate General Counsel. was named Vice President, General Counsel, and Assistant Secretary the Company June . September , . Stead assumed the additional position Secretary. *Information regarding employment agreements between certain executive officers and the Company set forth the section entitled "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" the Company\' Proxy Statement, which information hereby incorporated reference. PART ', 'item 5. ': 'Market for the Registrant\' Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The Company\' common stock traded the over-the-counter market and quoted the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD. Options are traded the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange. Information regarding the Company\' high and low reported closing prices for its common stock and the number shareholders record set forth Part , Item this Form - under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)" which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 6. ': 'Selected Financial Data The following selected financial information has been derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements that have been audited Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors. The information set forth below not necessarily indicative results future operations, and should read conjunction with "Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere this Form - . (Tabular amounts thousands, except per share amounts) ANNUAL Five fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share , , , , , Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ , , $ , $ , , $ , $ , Total assets $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Long-term debt $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Deferred tax liabilities $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , ', 'item 7. ': 'Management\' Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations The following discussion should read conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. All information based the Company\' fiscal calendar. (Tabular information: Dollars millions, except per share amounts) RESULTS OPERATIONS Change Change Net sales $ , % $ , % $ , Gross margin $ , - % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Operating expenses (excluding restructuring costs) $ , - % $ , -- $ , Percentage net sales % % % Restructuring costs $ ( ) - % $ -- -- Percentage net sales ( %) % -- Net income $ % $ - % $ Earnings per share $ % $ - % $ Net Sales Net sales increased $ , million, % fiscal , compared with increase $ million, %, fiscal . The net sales growth over was primarily due two factors: unit sales growth and, lesser extent, increase the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased % over the prior year. This growth resulted principally from strong sales the Company\' new Power Macintosh products, first introduced March , , and from sales newer product offerings within the Macintosh Performa line desktop personal computers and, lesser extent, within the PowerBook family notebook personal computers. This growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' more established products and older product versions. The average aggregate revenue per Macintosh unit increased slightly, primarily due fluctuations product mix throughout the year, despite pricing actions undertaken the Company response continuing industrywide pricing pressures. Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased % from , reflecting strong unit sales the Company\' newer product offerings within the Macintosh Quadra, and Performa lines desktop personal computers and within the PowerBook family notebook personal computers. This growth was partially offset declining unit sales certain the Company\' more established products and older product versions. The average aggregate revenue per unit declined % compared with , primarily result pricing actions undertaken the Company response continuing industrywide pricing pressures. , domestic net sales increased % over the prior year, compared with increase % over . International net sales grew % from , compared with % growth from , primarily result strong sales growth the Pacific region, particularly Japan. International net sales represented % net sales compared with % net sales both and . Gross Margin Gross margin continued decline percentage net sales from and levels. The gross margin percentage declined % from % . The downward trend gross margin percentage net sales was primarily result pricing and promotional actions undertaken the Company response industrywide competitive pricing pressures. Gross margin was also affected somewhat adversely changes foreign currency exchange rates result stronger . dollar relative certain foreign currencies compared with . Results from the Company\' ongoing foreign currency hedging activities offset portion this adverse foreign currency impact gross margin. Although the Company\' results operations can significantly affected the short term fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, the Company\' operating strategy and pricing take into account changes exchange rates over time. The decline gross margin percentage net sales from % % was primarily the result industrywide competitive pressures and associated pricing and promotional actions. Inventory valuation reserves recorded against certain products also contributed the decline gross margin percentage net sales. The Company\' results operations were minimally affected changes foreign currency exchange rates compared with . Although the Company\' gross margin percentage was % for the fourth quarter , resulting primarily from strong sales Power Macintosh computers and the PowerBook series notebook personal computers, anticipated that gross margins will remain under pressure and could fall below prior years\' levels worldwide due variety factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures, increased competition, and compressed product life cycles. Operating Expenses Change Change Research and development $ - % $ % $ Percentage net sales % % % Research and development expenditures decreased amount during compared with and . This decrease reflected the results the Company\' restructuring actions aimed reducing costs, including product development expenditures. The increase research and development expenditures from reflected net additions the Company\' engineering staff and related costs. Research and development expenditures, percentage net sales, decreased since result revenue growth during and , coupled with the Company\' continuing efforts focus its research and development project spending. The Company believes that continued investment research and development critical its future growth and competitive position the marketplace, and directly related continued, timely development new and enhanced products. Although the Company continues manage operating expense growth relative gross margin levels, anticipates that research and development expenditures will increase slightly amount. Change Change Selling, general and administrative $ , - % $ , - % $ , Percentage net sales % % % Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased amount and percentage net sales and compared with and , respectively. These decreases reflect the Company\' ongoing efforts manage operating expense growth relative gross margin levels. , selling, general and administrative expenses decreased amount and percentage net sales compared with , primarily because lower employee-related and facilities costs resulting from the restructuring actions taken the third quarter . addition, revenue growth contributed the decrease selling, general and administrative expenses percentage net sales. General and administrative expenses decreased compared with , primarily because reduced employee-related expenses resulting from the restructuring actions taken the third quarter . This decrease general and administrative expenses was offset slightly increase sales and marketing expenses result increases costs for product marketing and advertising programs related new product introductions and efforts increase product demand. The Company will continue face the challenge managing growth selling, general and administrative expenses relative gross margin levels, particularly light the Company\' expectation continued pressure gross margins and continued competitive pressures worldwide. The Company anticipates increase selling, general and administrative expenses from current levels, primarily resulting from marketing and advertising expenditures. Change Change Restructuring costs $( ) - % $ -- -- Percentage net sales ( %) % -- For information regarding the Company\' restructuring actions, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Change Change Interest and other income (expense), net $ ( ) - % $ - % $ Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $ million, $ million expense compared with $ million income . Higher interest rates and larger average borrowing balances used fund working capital needs served significantly increase interest expense, and accounted for $ million the $ million increase expenses during . Other factors contributing this variance include interest income, which was higher than primarily due $ million interest payment received non-recurring income tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service , and interest income from the Company\' interest rate risk management program, which contributed $ million , and reduced interest income $ million . Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased amount compared with because lower interest rates, lower cash balances, expenses associated with certain financing transactions, lower gains the sale certain the Company\' venture capital investments, increase the cost hedging certain foreign currency exposures, and increase interest expense due higher commercial paper borrowing levels. This decrease was partially offset interest earned income tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service and gains realized the Company\' ongoing foreign exchange risk management programs. For more information regarding the Company\' strategy and accounting for financial and other derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Provision for Income Taxes Change Change Provision for income taxes $ % $ - % $ Effective tax rate % % % The Company\' effective tax rate remained unchanged , and . For additional information regarding income taxes, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition The Company\' future operating results and financial condition are dependent the Company\' ability successfully develop, manufacture, and market technologically innovative products order meet dynamic customer demand patterns. Inherent this process are number factors that the Company must successfully manage order achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. Product Introductions and Transitions Due the highly volatile nature the personal computer industry, which characterized dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products and product enhancements. The success new product introductions dependent number factors, including market acceptance, the Company\' ability manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management inventory levels line with anticipated product demand, and the manufacturing products appropriate quantities meet anticipated demand. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that new products will have its sales results operations. March , , the Company introduced Power Macintosh, new line Macintosh computers based new PowerPC family RISC microprocessors. The Company\' results operations and financial condition may adversely affected unable successfully complete the transition its lines personal computers and servers from the Motorola series microprocessors the PowerPC microprocessor. The success this ongoing transition will depend the Company\' ability continue sell products based the Motorola series microprocessors while gaining market acceptance the new PowerPC processor-based products, successfully manage inventory levels both product lines simultaneously, and continue coordinate the timely development and distribution independent software vendors new "native" software applications specifically designed for the PowerPC processor-based products. The rate product shipments immediately following introduction new product not necessarily indication the anticipated future rate shipments for that product, which depends many factors, some which are not under the control the Company. These factors may include initial large purchases small segment the user population that tends purchase new technology prior its acceptance the majority users ("early adopters"); purchases satisfaction pent- demand users who anticipated new technology and result deferred purchases other products; and overordering dealers who anticipate shortages due the aforementioned factors. The preceding may also offset other factors, such the deferral purchases many users until new technology accepted "proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; and the reduction orders dealers once they believe they can obtain sufficient supply product previously backlog. Backlog often volatile after new product introductions due the aforementioned demand factors, often increasing sharply coincident with introduction, and then reducing sharply once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply product. The measurement demand for newly introduced products further complicated the availability different product configurations, which may include various types built- peripherals and software. Configurations may also require certain localization (such language) for various markets and, result, demand different geographic areas may function the availability third-party software those localized versions. For example, the availability European- language versions software products manufactured . producers may lag behind the availability . versions quarter more. This may result lower initial demand for the Company\' new products outside the United States, although localized versions the products may available. Competition The personal computer industry highly competitive and continues characterized consolidations the hardware and software industries, aggressive pricing practices, and downward pressure gross margins. The Company\' results operations and financial condition could adversely affected should the Company unable effectively manage the impact industrywide pricing pressures and continue realize the anticipated cost -reduction benefits associated with the restructuring plan initiated the third quarter . The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability offer customers competitive technologies while effectively managing the impact inventory levels and the potential for customer confusion created product proliferation. November , , the Company reached agreement with International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) and Motorola, Inc. new hardware reference platform for the PowerPC microprocessor that intended deliver much wider range operating system and application choices for computer customers. result this agreement, the Company intends port the Macintosh operating system the common platform. Accordingly, the Company\' future operating results and financial condition may affected its ability implement this and certain other collaboration agreements entered into, and manage the associated competitive risk. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability increase market share its personal computer business. Currently, the Company the only maker hardware that uses the Macintosh operating system, and has minority market share the personal computer market, which dominated makers computers that run the -DOS (registered trademark) and Microsoft Windows( ) operating systems. Certain the Company\' personal computer products are capable running software designed for the -DOS Windows operating system, through software emulation Intel microprocessor chips (except for one product, which does means coprocessor card). Optimal performance the Company\' products obtained use software specifically designed for the Company\' products, either those based the Motorola series microprocessors those based the PowerPC microprocessor. However, result the collaboration agreement noted the preceding paragraph, the Company will have the opportunity increase its market share the personal computer business the Macintosh operating system becomes available computers based the new hardware reference platform. Decisions customers purchase the Company\' personal computers, opposed -DOS Windows-based systems, are often based the availability third-party software for particular applications. The Company believes that the availability third-party application software for the Company\' hardware products depends part the third- party developers\' perception and analysis the relative benefits developing such software for the Company\' products versus software for the larger -DOS and Windows market. This analysis based factors such the relative market share the Company\' products, the anticipated potential revenue that may earned, and the costs developing such software products. effort increase overall market share, the Company plans license the Macintosh operating system other personal computer vendors beginning . The Company anticipates that the licensing activities will result variety these vendors bringing market personal computers that will run application software based the Macintosh operating system. The Company also believes that licensing will offer software vendors broader installed base which they can develop and provide technical innovations for the Macintosh platform. this time, the Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that licensing the Macintosh operating system will have its sales results operations. Microsoft Corporation the developer the -DOS and Windows operating systems, which are the principal competing operating systems the Company\' Macintosh operating system. Microsoft also important developer application software for the Company\' products. Accordingly, Microsoft\' interest producing application software for the Company\' products may influenced Microsoft\' perception its interests operating system vendor. The Company\' ability produce and market competitive products also dependent the ability IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers the new PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain the Company\' products, continue supply the Company microprocessors which produce superior price performance results compared with those supplied the Company\' competitors Intel Corporation, the developer and producer the microprocessors used most personal computers using the -DOS and Windows operating systems. IBM produces personal computers based the Intel microprocessors well the PowerPC microprocessor, and also the developer , competing operating system the Company\' Macintosh operating system. Accordingly, IBM\' interest supplying the Company with improved versions microprocessors for the Company\' products may influenced IBM\' perception its interests competing manufacturer personal computers and competing operating system vendor. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also affected the Company\' ability successfully expand its new businesses and product offerings into other markets, such the markets for -line services and personal digital assistant (PDA) products. Global Market Risks large portion the Company\' revenue derived from its international operations. result, the Company\' operations and financial results could significantly affected international factors, such changes foreign currency exchange rates weak economic conditions the foreign markets which the Company distributes its products. When the . dollar strengthens against other currencies, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales decreases. When the . dollar weakens, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the . dollar value non- . dollar-based costs increases when the . dollar weakens and decreases when the . dollar strengthens. Overall, the Company net receiver currencies other than the . dollar and, such, benefits from weaker dollar and adversely affected stronger dollar relative major currencies worldwide. Accordingly, changes exchange rates may negatively affect the Company\' consolidated sales and gross margins ( expressed . dollars). mitigate the short-term impact fluctuating currency exchange rates the Company\' non- . dollar-based sales, product procurement, and operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non- . dollar-based exposures. Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts hedge firmly committed transactions. Currently, hedges firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts hedge certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. Hedges probable, but not firmly committed transactions not extend beyond one year. reduce the costs associated with these ongoing foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly sells foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange forward and option contracts not accounted for hedges, including all transactions intended reduce the costs associated with the Company\' foreign exchange hedging programs, are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. While the Company exposed with respect the interest rates many the world\' leading industrialized countries, the Company\' interest income and expense most sensitive fluctuations the general level . interest rates. this regard, changes . interest rates affect the interest earned the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments well interest paid its short-term borrowings and long-term debt. mitigate the impact fluctuations . interest rates, the Company has entered into interest rate swap and option transactions. Certain these swaps are intended better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. The Company also enters into interest rate swap, swaption, and option transactions order extend the effective duration portion its cash, cash equivalent, and short-term investment portfolios. These swaps may extend the Company\' cash investment horizon maximum effective duration three years. ensure the adequacy and effectiveness the Company\' foreign exchange and interest rate hedge positions, well monitor the risks and opportunities the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest rate swap, swaption, and option positions stand-alone basis and conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate- related exposures, respectively, from both accounting and economic perspective. However, given the effective horizons the Company\' risk management activities, there can assurance that the aforementioned programs will offset more than portion the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements either foreign exchange interest rates. such, the Company\' operating results and financial position may adversely affected. Inventory The Company\' products include certain components, such specific microprocessors manufactured Motorola, Inc., that are currently available only from single sources. Any availability limitations, interruptions supplies, price increases these and other components could adversely affect the Company\' business and financial results. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition may also adversely affected the Company\' ability manage inventory levels and lead times required obtain components order more responsive short-term shifts customer demand patterns. addition, anticipated unit sales growth for new and current product offerings not realized, inventory valuation reserves may necessary that would adversely affect the Company\' results operations and financial condition. Marketing and Distribution number uncertainties exist regarding the marketing and distribution the Company\' products. Currently, the Company\' primary means distribution through third-party computer resellers. However, response changing industry practices and customer preferences, the Company continuing its expansion into various consumer channels, such mass-merchandise stores (for example, Sears and Wal-Mart), consumer electronics outlets, and computer superstores. The Company\' business and financial results could adversely affected the financial condition these sellers weakens sellers within consumer channels decide not continue distribute the Company\' products. Other Factors The majority the Company\' research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. The Company\' operating results and financial condition could materially adversely affected the event major earthquake. The Company plans replace its current transaction systems (which include order management, distribution, manufacturing, and finance) with single integrated system part its ongoing effort increase operational efficiency. The Company\' future operating results and financial condition could adversely affected its ability implement and effectively manage the transition this new integrated system. Because the foregoing factors, well other factors affecting the Company\' operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not considered reliable indicator future performance, and investors should not use historical trends anticipate results trends future periods. addition, the Company\' participation highly dynamic industry often results significant volatility the Company\' common stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net short-term borrowings $ $ $ , Working capital $ , $ , $ , Cash generated (used for) operations $ $ ( ) $ Cash used for investment activities, excluding short-term investments $ $ $ Cash generated (used for) financing activities $ ( ) $ $ ( ) The Company\' financial position with respect cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, net short-term borrowings, increased $ million September , , from $ million September , . This increase reflects $ million issuance ten-year unsecured notes, the proceeds which replaced portion the Company\' short-term financing. The improvement the Company\' financial condition was also attributable the Company\' continued efforts increase profit levels and manage working capital, particularly the area inventory management. More cash was generated operations compared with , primarily because significant decrease inventory levels, well increased sales levels. The significant decrease inventory levels during resulted from improved inventory management, higher sales levels attributable various pricing and promotional actions, and strong sales new product inventory which had been built preparation for the introduction Power Macintosh. Profit levels improved operating expenses decreased due the Company\' implementation restructuring actions initiated the third quarter . Cash generated operations was partially offset cash used for restructuring and increase accounts receivable. The increase accounts receivable reflected increase sales levels achieved during . The balance accrued restructuring costs decreased the restructuring actions initiated the third quarter continued implemented. addition, the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. More cash was used for operations compared with , primarily because significant increase inventory levels; decreases net income, income taxes payable, and other current liabilities; and increase accounts receivable levels. Cash used for operations was offset slightly increases accrued restructuring costs and accounts payable. Inventory increased substantially during result higher levels purchased parts, work process, and finished goods inventory support expanded product line and distribution channels and anticipated higher sales volumes. The decrease net income resulted primarily from reduction gross margins and the restructuring charge included operating expenses for the third quarter. The reduction earnings also contributed the decrease income taxes payable. Other current liabilities decreased the Company continued manage operating expense levels. The increase accounts receivable corresponded the higher sales levels achieved compared with , coupled with slower collections resulting from economic pressures the reseller industry, and the Company\' expansion into consumer channels, where payment terms are generally longer. These uses cash were offset slightly increases accrued restructuring costs result the Company\' plan restructure its operations worldwide and increases accounts payable, reflecting the higher level inventory purchases. Excluding short-term investments, net cash used for investments declined compared with and levels. Net cash used for the purchase property, plant, and equipment totaled $ million , and was primarily made increases land, buildings, machinery, and equipment. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures will slightly above expenditures. The Company leases the majority its facilities and certain its equipment under noncancelable operating leases. , rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million. The Company\' future lease commitments are discussed page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company\' balance long-term debt increased during due the issuance $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes under omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration was for the registration debt and other securities for aggregate offering amount $ million. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi- annually and mature February , . The % fixed-rate was subsequently effectively converted floating-rate through ten-year interest rate swaps based the six-month . dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The impact the swaps during was reduce the % fixed-rate yield % yield. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements generally does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. anticipated that any margin the Company may required post the future would not have material adverse effect the Company\' liquidity position. Short-term borrowings September , , were approximately $ million lower than September , , the proceeds from the issuance $ million long-term debt were used pay down the balance short-term borrowings. The Company\' short-term borrowings reflect borrowings made under its commercial paper program and short-term uncommitted bid-line arrangements with certain commercial banks. particular, Apple Japan, Inc., wholly owned subsidiary the Company, incurred short-term yen-denominated borrowings from several Japanese banks during , the balance which aggregated the . dollar equivalent approximately $ million September , . During the first quarter , the Company also entered into -day $ million committed revolving credit facility which terminated December , , with syndicate banks primarily support its commercial paper program. borrowings were made under this facility. The Company expects that will continue incur short- and long-term borrowings from time time finance . working capital needs and capital expenditures, because substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries, generally . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated. Refer the Income Taxes footnote pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The Company believes that its balances cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations and short- and long-term borrowing capabilities, will sufficient meet its operating cash requirements short- and long-term basis. ', 'item 7a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Financial Statements: Report Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors Consolidated Balance Sheets September , and September , Consolidated Statements Income for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity for the three fiscal years ended September , Consolidated Statements Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended September , Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) Financial Statement Schedules: For the three fiscal years ended September , Schedule - Amounts receivable from related parties and underwriters, promoters and employees other than related parties - Schedule VIII - Valuation and qualifying accounts and reserves - Schedule - Short-term borrowings - Schedule - Supplementary income statement information - All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information not present not present amounts sufficient require submission the schedule, because the information required included the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. REPORT ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Shareholders and Board Directors Apple Computer, Inc. have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the related consolidated statements income, shareholders\' equity, and cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , . Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed the Index Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility the Company\' management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements and schedules based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred above present fairly, all material respects, the consolidated financial position Apple Computer, Inc. September , and September , , and the consolidated results its operations and its cash flows for each the three years the period ended September , , conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered relation the basic financial statements taken whole, present fairly all material respects the information set forth therein. / / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California October , Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars thousands) September , , and September , Assets: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ , , $ , Short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net allowance for doubtful accounts $ , ($ , ) , , , , Inventories , , , , Deferred tax assets , , Other current assets , , Total current assets , , , , Property, plant, and equipment: Land and buildings , , Machinery and equipment , , Office furniture and equipment , , Leasehold improvements , , , , , , Accumulated depreciation and amortization ( , ) ( , ) Net property, plant, and equipment , , Other assets , , $ , , $ , , Liabilities and Shareholders\' Equity: Current liabilities: Short-term borrowings $ , $ , Accounts payable , , Accrued compensation and employee benefits , , Accrued marketing and distribution , , Accrued restructuring costs , , Other current liabilities , , Total current liabilities , , , , Long-term debt , , Deferred tax liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Shareholders\' equity: Common stock, par value; , , shares authorized; , , shares issued and outstanding ( , , shares ) , , Retained earnings , , , , Accumulated translation adjustment ( , ) ( , ) Total shareholders\' equity , , , , $ , , $ , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Income ( thousands, except per share amounts) Three fiscal years ended September , Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Costs and expenses: Cost sales , , , , , , Research and development , , , Selling, general and administrative , , , , , , Restructuring costs ( , ) , -- , , , , , , Operating income , , , Interest and other income (expense), net ( , ) , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $. $ Common and common equivalent shares used the calculations earnings per share , , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Shareholders\' Equity ( thousands, except per share amounts) Accu- mulated Notes Trans- Receivable Total lation from Share- Common Stock Retained Adjust- Share- holders\' Shares Amount Earnings ment holders Equity Balance September , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , , -- -- -- , Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Repayment notes receivable from shareholders -- -- -- -- , , Cash dividends $. per common share -- -- ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- , -- , Net income -- -- , -- -- , Balance September , , , , , -- , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , , -- -- -- , Repurchase common stock ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Cash dividends $. per common share -- -- ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- ( , ) -- ( , ) Net income -- -- , -- -- , Balance September , , , , , ( , ) -- , , Common stock issued under stock option and purchase plans, including related tax benefits , , -- -- -- , Cash dividends $. per common share -- -- ( , ) -- -- ( , ) Accumulated translation adjustment -- -- -- , -- , Net income -- -- , -- -- , Balance September , , $ , $ , , $ ( , ) $ -- $ , , See accompanying notes. Consolidated Statements Cash Flows ( thousands) Three fiscal years ended September , Cash and cash equivalents, beginning the period $ , $ , $ , Operations: Net income , , , Adjustments reconcile net income cash generated (used for) operations: Depreciation and amortization , , , Net book value property, plant, and equipment retirements , , , Changes assets and liabilities: Accounts receivable ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Inventories , ( , ) , Deferred tax assets ( , ) ( , ) , Other current assets , ( , ) ( , ) Accounts payable , , , Income taxes payable , ( , ) , Accrued restructuring costs ( , ) , ( , ) Other current liabilities , ( , ) , Deferred tax liabilities , , , Cash generated (used for) operations , ( , ) , Investments: Purchase short-term investments ( , ) ( , , ) ( , , ) Proceeds from sale short-term investments , , , , , Purchase property, plant, and equipment ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Cash generated (used for) investment activities ( , ) , ( , ) Financing: Increase (decrease) short-term borrowings ( , ) , , Increase (decrease) long-term borrowings , ( , ) ( ) Increases common stock, net related tax benefits and changes notes receivable from shareholders , , , Repurchase common stock -- ( , ) ( , ) Cash dividends ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other -- ( , ) -- Cash generated (used for) financing activities ( , ) , ( , ) Total cash generated (used) , , ( , ) Cash and cash equivalents, end the period $ , , $ , $ , Supplemental cash flow disclosures: Cash paid during the year for: Interest $ , $ , $ , Income taxes, net $ , $ , $ , Schedule non-cash transactions: Tax benefit from stock options $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Summary Significant Accounting Policies _________________________________________________________________________ Basis Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts Apple Computer, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company\' fiscal year-end the last Friday September. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue the time products are shipped. Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price protection that may occur under Company programs. Historically, actual amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied significantly from estimated amounts. Warranty Expense The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may incurred under product warranties when products are shipped. Foreign Currency Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation are accumulated separate component shareholders\' equity until the foreign entity sold liquidated. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included the consolidated statements income. Financial Instruments All highly liquid investments with maturity three months less the date purchase are considered cash equivalents; investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered short-term investments. substantial portion the Company\' cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held foreign subsidiaries and generally based . dollar-denominated holdings. Amounts held foreign subsidiaries would subject . income taxation upon repatriation the United States; the Company\' financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability amounts that may repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings that are intended indefinitely invested. The Company has not elected early adoption Financial Accounting Standard . (FAS ), "Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities". FAS becomes effective beginning with the Company\' first quarter fiscal year . The principal impact the new statement replace the historical cost accounting approach for certain investments debt and equity securities with one based fair value. The Company does not expect adoption FAS have material effect its financial position results operations. For further information regarding the Company\' accounting treatment other financial and derivative instruments, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes Effective September , , the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standard . (FAS ), "Accounting for Income Taxes," which changes the method accounting for income taxes from the deferred method the liability method. This change accounting principle has been adopted prospective basis, and the financial statements years ended prior September , , have not been restated. The cumulative effect the change was not material. Under FAS , deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates that apply taxable income the years which those temporary differences are expected recovered settled. Under FAS , the effect deferred tax assets and liabilities change tax rates recognized income the period that includes the enactment date. Prior , the Company accounted for income taxes under the provisions APB Opinion . , which recognized deferred taxes for the effect timing differences between pretax accounting income and taxable income. Under the deferred method APB Opinion . , deferred taxes were not adjusted for subsequent changes tax rates. . income taxes have not been provided cumulative total $ million undistributed earnings certain the Company\' foreign subsidiaries. intended that these earnings will indefinitely invested operations outside the United States. not practicable determine the income tax liability that might incurred these earnings were distributed. Except for such indefinitely invested earnings, the Company provides federal and state income taxes currently undistributed earnings foreign subsidiaries. Earnings per Share Earnings per share are computed using the weighted average number common and dilutive common equivalent shares attributable stock options outstanding during the period. Loss per share computed using the weighted average number common shares outstanding during the period. Inventories Inventories are stated the lower cost (first- , first-out) market. the cost the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the market value. Property, Plant, and Equipment Property, plant, and equipment stated cost. Depreciation and amortization computed use the declining balance and straight- line methods over the estimated useful lives the assets. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements Cash Flows, Industry Segment and Geographic Information, and Income Taxes footnotes have been reclassified conform the current year presentation. Financial Instruments ___________________________________________________________________________ Financial Instruments With Off-Balance-Sheet Risk the ordinary course business and part the Company\' asset and liability management, the Company enters into various types transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off- balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into order manage financial market risk, including interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The Company enters into these financial instruments with major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter opposed exchange traded instruments. Interest Rate Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate derivatives, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, and options, with financial institutions order better match the Company\' floating-rate interest income its cash equivalents and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense its long-term debt. These instruments are also used extend the effective duration portion the Company\' short-term investment portfolio maximum duration three years, and diversify portion its exposure away from changes . interest rates. Foreign Currency Instruments The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts with financial institutions primarily protect against currency exchange risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company\' foreign exchange risk management policy requires hedge substantially all its material foreign exchange transaction exposures. However, the Company does not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are immaterial either terms their minimal dollar value terms their high correlation with the . dollar. Anticipated transactions comprise sales the Company\' products currencies other than the . dollar. majority these non- . dollar-based sales are made through the Company\' subsidiaries Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia. The duration these anticipated hedging transactions does not exceed one year. The Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, order partially finance the purchase foreign exchange option contracts used hedge both firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions. The Company enters into other foreign exchange transactions, which are intended reduce the costs associated with its foreign exchange risk management programs. Fair Value, Notional Principal, and Credit Risk Amounts The table below shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate derivative and foreign currency instruments September , . The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide one measure the transaction volume outstanding year end, and not represent the amount the Company\' exposure credit market loss. The credit risk amount shown the table below represents the Company\' gross exposure potential accounting loss these transactions all counterparties failed perform according the terms the contract, based then- current currency exchange and interest rates each respective date. The Company\' exposure credit loss and market risk will vary over time function interest rates and currency exchange rates. The estimates fair value are based applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information September , . certain instances where judgment required estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from several the Company\' counterparty financial institutions. Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and credit risk amounts the Company\' interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, does not reflect the gains losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange instruments are intended hedge. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses the underlying exposures, will depend actual market conditions during the remaining life the instruments. ( millions) ( ) Credit Credit Notional Fair Risk Notional Fair Risk Principal Value Amount Principal Value Amount Transactions Qualifying Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps $ $ ( ) -- -- -- -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot / Forward contracts $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ $ ( ) -- $ --( ) -- Transactions Other Than Accounting Hedges Interest rate instruments Swaps -- -- -- $ --( ) -- Sold options $ --( ) -- $ --( ) -- Foreign exchange instruments Spot / Forward contracts $ --( ) --( ) $ $ $ Purchased options $ , $ $ $ , $ $ Sold options $ , $ ( ) -- $ , $( ) -- ( ) Adjusted conform with current year presentation. ( ) Fair value less than $ million. The interest rate swaps shown above generally require the Company pay floating interest rate based three- six-month . dollar LIBOR and receive fixed rate interest based two-, three-, and ten-year swap rates without exchanges the underlying notional amounts. Maturity dates for interest rate swaps currently range from one ten years. Interest rate option contracts require the Company make payments should certain interest rates either fall below rise above predetermined levels. All interest rate option contracts outstanding September , , expire within months. Interest rate contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value with gains and losses recorded currently income. Unrealized gains and losses interest rate contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transaction. Unrealized losses such agreements totaled approximately $ million September , , primarily reflecting the net present value unrealized losses the ten-year swap contracts, which effectively convert the Company\' fixed-rate ten- year debt floating-rate debt. There were deferred gains and losses interest rate contracts September , . The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for hedges are carried fair value and are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Unrealized gains and losses foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective hedges are deferred and recognized income the same period the hedged transactions. Deferred gains and losses such agreements September , , and September , , were immaterial. All foreign exchange forward contracts expire within one year. Purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts that qualify for hedge accounting treatment are reported the balance sheet the premium cost, which amortized over the life the option. Unrealized gains and losses these option contracts are deferred until the occurrence the hedged transaction and recognized component the hedged transaction. Deferred gains and losses such agreements were immaterial September , , and September , . Maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts range from one twelve months. Purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts that not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are carried fair value and, such, are adjusted each balance sheet date for changes exchange rates. Gains and losses associated with these financial instruments are recorded currently income. September , , maturity dates for these sold option contracts ranged from one six months. The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions daily based upon applicable and commonly used pricing models. The correlation between the changes the fair value hedging instruments and the changes the underlying hedged items assessed periodically over the life the hedged instrument. the event that determined that hedge ineffective, the Company recognizes income the change market value the instrument beginning the date was longer effective hedge. Other Financial Instruments The carrying amounts and estimated fair values the Company\' other financial instruments are follows: ( millions) Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Amount Value Amount Value Cash and cash equivalents $ , $ , $ $ Short-term investments $ $ $ $ Short-term borrowings $ $ $ $ Long-term debt: Ten-year unsecured notes $ $ -- -- Other $ $ $ $ Short-term investments are carried cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value. The carrying amount short-term borrowings approximates their fair value due their short-term maturities. The fair value the ten-year unsecured notes based their listed market value September , . Concentrations Credit Risk _________________________________________________________________________ The Company distributes its products principally through third-party computer resellers and various education and consumer channels. Concentrations credit risk with respect trade receivables are limited because flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party financing companies and because the Company\' customer base consists large numbers geographically diverse customers dispersed across several industries. such, the Company generally does not require collateral from its customers. The counterparties the agreements relating the Company\' investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist number major international financial institutions. date, such counterparty has failed meet its financial obligations the Company. The Company does not believe that there significant risk nonperformance these counterparties because the Company continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings such counterparties, and limits the financial exposure and the amount agreements and contracts enters into with any one party. The Company generally does not require collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year interest rate swaps the Company\' long- term debt. mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its third-party bank counterparties. Margining under these agreements generally does not start until . Furthermore, these agreements would require the Company the counterparty post margin only certain credit risk thresholds were exceeded. Inventories Inventories consist the following: ( thousands) Purchased parts $ , $ , Work process , , Finished goods , , $ , , $ , , Borrowings _________________________________________________________________________ ( thousands) Short-Term Borrowings Commercial paper $ , $ , Notes payable banks , -- $ , $ , The weighted average interest rates for commercial paper borrowings September , , and September , , were approximately % and %, respectively. The weighted average interest rate for the Japanese yen-denominated notes payable banks September , , was approximately %. Interest expense short-term borrowings was $ million, $ million, and $ million for , , and , respectively. December , , the Company entered into -day $ million committed revolving-credit facility with syndicate banks primarily support its commercial paper program. This facility terminated December , . borrowings were made under this facility. The cost this facility was immaterial. Long-Term Debt February , , the Company issued $ million aggregate principal amount % unsecured notes under the Company\' $ million omnibus shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes were sold % par, for effective yield maturity %. The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature February , . Interest expense the ten-year unsecured notes for the year ended September , , was approximately $ million. Other long-term debt approximately $ million and $ million September , , and September , , respectively, and the related interest expense each the three years ended September , , was immaterial. For information regarding the Company\' estimated fair value short- and long-term debt, refer page the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Operations ________________________________________________________________________ the third quarter , the Company initiated plan restructure its operations worldwide order address the competitive conditions the personal computer industry, including the increased market demand for lower-priced products. connection with this plan, the Company recorded $ million charge operating expenses ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). The restructuring costs included $ million estimated employee-related expenses and $ million estimated facilities, equipment, and other expenses associated with the consolidation operations and the relocation and termination certain operations and employees. The restructuring plan originally contemplated the termination relocation approximately , employees worldwide and the reduction worldwide office space, which primarily consisted approximately million square feet office space the San Francisco Bay Area, within one year from the date the restructuring was initiated. the third quarter , the Company lowered its estimate the total costs associated with the restructuring and recorded adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). This adjustment primarily reflected the modification cancelation certain elements the Company\' original restructuring plan because changing business and economic conditions that made certain elements the restructuring plan financially less attractive than originally anticipated. addition, some actions were completed lower cost than originally estimated. The most significant element the adjustment was associated with $ million costs accrued terminate move number employees from the San Francisco Bay Area lower-cost location. This element the Company\' restructuring plan was expected result the termination relocation approximately , employees and the closure certain leased facilities, cost $ million and $ million, respectively. However, the expected benefits this move were reduced since the plan\' inception because changes the cost differential between the Company\' current and alternative locations. For example, the Company favorably renegotiated the lease terms certain facilities its current locations, the salary growth rate differentials between the Bay Area and alternative locations were reduced, and recent changes the California income tax laws made more attractive for companies business California. The Company canceled this action the third quarter , when management decided that the extended estimated pay- back period longer justified the initial cash investment and the unquantifiable cost business disruption that such move would precipitate. the end fiscal year , approximately , employees had been terminated and approximately had been relocated, and the Company had reduced its use office space the Bay Area approximately , square feet. the time the restructuring was announced, management had publicly set goal reducing operating costs below $ million per quarter and increasing sales significantly achieve acceptable profitability. These goals were met the end the third quarter fiscal . The Company continues search for ways permanently reduce its cost structure. Although the Company has achieved lower level operating expenses without fully implementing all the restructuring actions originally planned, there can assurance that this level operating expenses will maintained the future. For example, operating expenses (excluding restructure) were reduced $ million, %, compared with , despite increase net sales %. September , , the Company had $ million accrued restructuring costs for actions that are currently under way and expected completed during . Approximately $ million this accrual represents cash charges primarily for estimated facilities, equipment, and other expenses, the majority which are expected incurred during . Cash spending beyond one year primarily relates approximately $ million recurring payments under certain noncancelable operating leases. The following table depicts roll-forward reconciliation the activity the restructuring accrual balance from September , , September , : ( thousands) Balance Balance Sept. , Adjust- Sept. , Category Spending ments Employee termination payments( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , Other costs relating terminated employees ( ) , , , -- Provisions relating employees who will not terminated ( ) , , , , Termination payments for leases and other contracts ( ) , , , , Write-down operating assets sold ( ) , , , , Provisions for litigation ( ) , -- , , & project cancelations ( ) , , , , Other provisions and write-downs ( ) , , , , accrued restructuring costs ( ) , , , $ , $ , $ , $ , ( ): Cash; ( ): Noncash; ( ): Both cash and noncash Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net ___________________________________________________________________________ Interest and other income (expense), net, consists the following: ( thousands) Interest income $ , $ , $ , Interest expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Discount foreign exchange instruments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other income (expense), net , , , $ ( , ) $ , $ , Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consists the following: ( thousands) FAS Method APB Method Federal: Current $ , $ , $ , Deferred , ( , ) , , ( , ) , State: Current , , , Deferred , , , , , Foreign: Current , , , Deferred , , , , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , The foreign provision for income taxes based foreign pretax earnings approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. The tax benefit credited directly common stock result compensation expense attributable employee stock option and purchase plans recognized differently for financial reporting and tax purposes was $ million . discussed the Summary Significant Accounting Policies, the Company adopted FAS effective the beginning the fiscal year ended September , . Prior , the Company accounted for income taxes under the provisions APB Opinion . . Under FAS , deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. September , , the significant components the Company\' deferred tax assets and liabilities were follows: ( thousands) September , Deferred tax assets: Accounts receivable and inventory reserves $ , Accrued liabilities and other reserves , Basis capital assets and investments , Total deferred tax assets , Less: Valuation allowance , Net deferred tax assets , Deferred tax liabilities: Unremitted earnings subsidiaries , Other , Total deferred tax liabilities , Net deferred tax liability $ , The net change the total valuation allowance for the year ended September , , was increase $ million. Under APB Opinion . , deferred income taxes result from timing differences between years the recognition certain revenue and expense items for financial and tax reporting purposes. The sources timing differences and the related tax effects for and are follows: ( thousands) Income foreign subsidiaries not taxable current year $ , $ , Warranty, bad debt, and other expenses ( , ) , Depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Inventory valuation ( , ) ( , ) State income taxes , ( , ) Other individually immaterial items , , Total deferred taxes $ ( , ) $ , reconciliation the provision for income taxes, with the amount computed applying the statutory federal income tax rate ( % , % , and % ) income before income taxes, follows: FAS Method APB Method Computed expected tax $ , $ , $ , State taxes, net federal benefit , , , Research and development tax credit ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Indefinitely invested earnings foreign subsidiaries ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Valuation allowance , -- -- Other individually immaterial items , , , Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , Effective tax rate % % % The Internal Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax deficiencies for the years through , and the Company has made prepayments thereon. The Company has contested these alleged deficiencies and pursuing administrative and judicial remedies. Management believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. Common Stock _________________________________________________________________________ Shareholder Rights Plan May , the Company adopted shareholder rights plan and distributed dividend one right purchase one share common stock ( Right) for each outstanding share common stock the Company. The Rights become exercisable certain limited circumstances involving potential business combination transaction the Company and are initially exercisable price $ per share. Following certain other events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its holder purchase for $ amount common stock the Company, , certain circumstances, securities the acquiror, having then-current market value two times the exercise price the Right. The Rights are redeemable and may amended the Company\' option before they become exercisable. Until Right exercised, the holder Right, such, has rights shareholder the Company. The Rights expire April , . Stock Option Plans The Company has effect Stock Option Plan (the Plan) and Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the Plan). The Stock Option Plan terminated October . Options granted before that date remain outstanding accordance with their terms. Options may granted under the Plan employees, including officers and directors who are employees, not less than the fair market value the date grant. These options generally become exercisable over varying periods, based continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the grant date. The Plan permits the granting incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights. The Plan permits the granting nonstatutory options certain officers the Company purchase Apple common stock prices not less than % the fair market value the date grant. Options under the Plan are generally not exercisable for months after the date grant, and then become exercisable varying rates over the subsequent seven years, based continued service the Company. Summarized information regarding the Company\' stock option plans September , , follows: ( thousands, except per share amounts) Number Price Per Shares Share Outstanding September , , $ - $ Granted , Exercised ( , ) $ -$ Expired canceled ( , ) Outstanding September , , $ - $ Exercisable , Reserved for issuance , Available for future grant , Restricted Stock Plan April , , the Company\' Board Directors approved Restricted Stock Plan for officers the Company (the RSP), which became effective July , . The RSP was subsequently ratified the shareholders January , . The RSP designed provide incentive for officers continue own shares the Company\' common stock acquired upon exercise options under any the Company\' Stock Option Plans, thus more closely aligning officers\' financial interests with those the shareholders. The RSP provides that officers who exercise stock options and continue hold the exercised shares for least three years will receive three Awards shares restricted stock. Each such Award for one-third the number shares held for the requisite retention period. Each restricted stock Award granted pursuant the plan becomes fully vested three years after the grant date, provided that the officer maintains continuous employment with the Company and that other vesting requirements are met. Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Company has employee stock purchase plan (the Purchase Plan) under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions price equal % the lower the fair market values the beginning end the offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited % employee\' compensation, maximum $ , any calendar year. September , , approximately million shares were reserved for future issuance under the Purchase Plan. Stock Repurchase Programs November , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. shares were repurchased under this authorization , while approximately million shares were repurchased under this authorization . September , the Board Directors authorized the purchase million shares the Company\' common stock the open market. During and , the Company repurchased the remaining shares under this authorization, which approximated million and million shares, respectively. Savings Plan The Company has employee savings plan (the Savings Plan) that qualifies deferred salary arrangement under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, participating . employees may defer portion their pretax earnings, the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($ , for calendar year ). Effective July , , the Company matches % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. Prior July , , the Company matched % % each employee\' contributions, depending length service, maximum % the employee\' earnings. The Company\' matching contributions the Savings Plan were approximately $ million and $ million each and . Preferred Stock _________________________________________________________________________ Five million shares preferred stock have been authorized for issuance one more series. The Board Directors authorized fix the number and designation any such series and determine the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions granted imposed any such series. Commitments and Contingencies ___________________________________________________________________________ Lease Commitments The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating lease arrangements. The major facilities leases are for terms five ten years and generally provide renewal options for terms five additional years. Rent expense under all operating leases was approximately $ million, $ million, and $ million , , and , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under these noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms excess one year September , , are follows: ( thousands) $ , , , , , Later years , Total minimum lease payments $ , Leases for facilities that were subject the Company\' restructuring actions initiated the third quarter and the third quarter are included the preceding table. Future lease payments associated with these facilities were provided for the Company\' restructuring reserves recorded and , and therefore not represent future operating expenses. Minimum lease payments may decline the future, the leases for facilities subject restructuring actions are terminated otherwise completed. For additional information regarding restructuring operations, refer pages - the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements. January , wholly owned subsidiary the Company exercised its option purchase, for $ million, the remaining partnership interest the Cupertino Gateway Partners partnership, general partnership, which owns the Company\' campus-type office facilities located Cupertino, California (the "Campus"). result this purchase, the Company\' wholly owned subsidiary now owns % the right, title, and interest the Campus, opposed % investment the partnership held the prior year. Because this purchase, future minimum lease payments the partnership approximately $ million have been excluded from the preceding table. Litigation Apple . Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company March , the Company filed suit the . District Court for the Northern District California (the Court) against Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) and Hewlett-Packard Company ( ), alleging that their Microsoft Windows and NewWave computer programs infringe the Company\' audiovisual copyrights protecting the Macintosh user interface. August , , the district court entered final judgment for Microsoft and , dismissing the Company\' action. September , , the Court denied defendants\' motions for award full defense costs and attorneys\' fees under . Section , but allowed defendants renew their motions should the Supreme Court alter the standard for the award attorneys\' fees copyright cases the case Fogerty . Fantasy, Inc., . . ( ). ------------------ September , , the Company appealed the case the . Court Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. September , , the Court Appeals issued its decision affirming the district court judgment the merits but remanding the case the issue attorney\' fees light the Fogerty decision. The Company plans file petition for writ ------- ------- certiorari the Supreme Court the United States. - ---------- Apple Securities Litigation ( ) , number civil class action complaints relating the June drop price Apple stock were filed . District Court against the Company and certain its officers and directors, alleging violations federal securities laws for alleged material misrepresentations and omissions fact concerning the Company\' business. The cases were subsequently consolidated into Apple ------------- Securities Litigation, Civ. . - - -RPA(EAI). These suits were - ---------------------- filed behalf the named plaintiffs and all others who purchased the Company\' common stock between October , , and July , . Plaintiffs seek award damages according proof, with interest. State Court Shareholders Action , certain derivative class action complaints relating the June drop price Apple stock were filed against the Company, nominal defendant, and certain its officers and directors. The suits allege violations California law. September , , all parties entered into stipulation that consolidated the derivative actions and stayed them their entirety until the conclusion the class action litigation. Lemelson . Apple September , , Jerome Lemelson filed complaint against the Company the . District Court, District Nevada, which complaint was amended April , , alleging infringement two patents relating information storage and retrieval systems. . Lemelson seeks injunctive relief, damages unspecified amount, and award attorneys\' fees and costs. The case set for trial January . Grant . Apple February , , Richard . Grant filed complaint against the Company the . District Court for the Central District California alleging infringement natural-language patent. This matter has been resolved. The Company believes the suits cited above without merit and intends vigorously defend against these actions. The Company believes the resolution all these matters will not have material adverse effect its financial condition and results operations reported the accompanying financial statements. However, depending the amount and timing unfavorable resolution these lawsuits, possible that the Company\' future results operations cash flow could materially affected particular period. Industry Segment and Geographic Information The Company operates one principal industry segment: the design, manufacture, and sale personal computing products. The Company\' products are sold primarily the business, education, home, and government markets. Geographic financial information follows: ( thousands) Net sales unaffiliated customers: United States $ , , $ , , $ , , Europe , , , , , , Pacific , , , , , Other countries , , , Total net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated consolidation): United States $ , $ , $ , Europe , , , Pacific , , , , , , Other countries -- , , Total transfers $ , , $ , , $ , , Operating income (loss): United States $ , $ ( , ) $ , Europe , , , Pacific , , , Other countries , , , Eliminations ( , ) ( , ) , Corporate income (expense), net ( , ) , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , Identifiable assets: United States $ , , $ , , $ , , Europe , , , Pacific , , , Other countries , , , Eliminations ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Corporate assets , , , , , Total assets $ , , $ , , $ , , "Other countries" consists Canada and Australia. Prior year amounts have been restated conform the current year presentation. Net sales unaffiliated customers based the location the customers. Transfers between geographic areas are recorded amounts generally above cost and accordance with the rules and regulations the respective governing tax authorities. Operating income (loss) geographic area consists total net sales less operating expenses, and does not include allocation general corporate expenses. The restructuring charge and adjustment recorded and , respectively, are included the calculation operating income (loss) for each geographic area. Identifiable assets geographic areas are those assets used the Company\' operations each area. Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, joint venture investments, and short-term investments. Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (Tabular amounts thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income $ , $ , $ , $ , Earnings per common and common equivalent share $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ Net sales $ , , $ , , $ , , $ , , Gross margin $ , $ , $ , $ , Net income (loss) $ , $( , ) $ , $ , Earnings (loss) per common and common equivalent share $ $ ( ) $ $ Cash dividends declared per common share $ $ $ $ Price range per common share $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ $ -$ September , , there were , shareholders record. The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends its common stock April . The dividend policy determined quarterly the Board Directors and dependent the Company\' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors. The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest closing prices for the Company\' common stock the Nasdaq National Market during each quarter. Net income for the third quarter includes restructuring adjustment that increased income $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). Net loss for the third quarter includes restructuring charge $ million ($ million, $ per share, after taxes). ', 'item 9. ': 'Changes and Disagreements with Accountants Accounting and Financial Disclosure Not applicable. PART III Item . Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . Item . Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions", "Report the Compensation Committee and Stock Option Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. Item . Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions", and "Report the Compensation Committee and Stock Option Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART Item . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedules The financial statement schedules the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Note due . Credit Agreement between the Registrant and certain lenders dated December , . * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K ** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K ** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K ** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant ** Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . 91K ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ** Senior / Executive Bonus Plan. 91K ** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. 90K ** Employment Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated May , between the Registrant and Fred Forsyth. 90K- ** Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated February , between the Registrant and Soren Olsson. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Robert Puette. 91K ** Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan 93K ** Separation Agreement dated October , between the Registrant and John Sculley. 93K ** Separation Agreement dated November , between the Registrant and Albert . Eisenstat. 93K ** Separation Agreement and Consulting Services Agreement dated October , and December , , respectively, between the Registrant and Robert Puette. * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCA Corporation (later renamed "Taligent, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. - - Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCB Corporation (later renamed "Kaleida Labs, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. - - Agreement for Licensing IBM Compilers and Tools dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for the Mac AIX Compiler. - - Development and License Agreement dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for Mac- -AIX. - - Agreement for Development and Licensing AIX and AIXwindows dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Enterprise Interoperability Master Task Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and IBM. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Lease Agreement dated November , between TGL Associates and the Registrant, amended Modification Lease Agreement dated March , . 92K Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement dated July , between ACI Real Properties, Inc. and Sobrato Development Company # . * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) - 92K Agreement amending Cupertino Gateway Partners General Partnership Agreement dated November , . Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Partners and the Registrant. - 92K First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. NOTES ( ) Copies these lease agreements have been omitted because they are substantially identical all material respects the Lease Agreement filed Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , except set forth Schedule attached such Exhibit . ( ) Copies these amendments have been omitted because they are substantially identical all material respects the First Amendment Lease Agreement filed Exhibit - . 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 90K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 90K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Current Report Form - dated October , (the "October Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . NOTES (continued) - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedules See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedules Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER MICHAEL . SPINDLER President and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael . Spindler, Joseph . Graziano, and Edward . Stead, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER / / JOSEPH . GRAZIANO MICHAEL . SPINDLER JOSEPH . GRAZIANO President and Executive Vice President Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Executive Officer), (Principal Financial Officer), and Director and Director December , December , / / JEANNE SEELEY / / ARMAS . MARKKULA, . JEANNE SEELEY ARMAS . MARKKULA, . Vice President, Finance, and Chairman the Board Corporate Controller and Director December , December , / / PETER . CRISP / / BERNARD GOLDSTEIN PETER . CRISP BERNARD GOLDSTEIN Director Director December , December , / / . JURGEN HINTZ / / KATHERINE HUDSON . JURGEN HINTZ KATHERINE HUDSON Director Director December , December , SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES NOTES RECEIVABLE FROM SHAREHOLDERS ( thousands) Balance Balance Beginning End Name Debtor Period Additions Collections Period Notes* Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , John Sculley $ , $ $ , $ -- ( )( ) The above Notes Receivable from Shareholders are presented deduction from shareholders\' equity since they are related the sale Common Stock the Company officers, directors, and employees under stock option and purchase plans. Notes Receivable from Shareholders does not include accrued interest. The notes receivable are secured pledge the shares issued, less the pro rata release the Company pledged shares based the percentage the principal amount the notes paid. The notes bear interest % per annum. *Footnotes appear page - . - SCHEDULE (continued) OTHER ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE ( thousands) Balance Amounts Balance Beginning Written End Period Additions Collections Off Period Notes* Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , Donald Casey $ $ -- $ -- $ $ -- Paul Gavarini -- -- -- James Mullen -- -- -- $ $ -- $ $ $ -- Year Ended September , Donald Casey $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ Paul Gavarini -- -- -- James Mullen -- -- John Sculley , , -- -- ( )( ) $ , $ $ , $ -- $ The above Other Accounts Receivable bore interest from % % and were payable various dates through April , . NOTES ( ) Director the Company the end the period indicated. ( ) Executive Officer the Company the end the period indicated. - SCHEDULE VIII APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( thousands) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses Deductions( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , ____________ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS ( thousands) Weighted Maximum Average Average Category Weighted Amount Amount Interest Aggregate Average Outstanding Outstanding Rate Short-term Year-end Interest During the During the During the Borrowings( ) Balance Rate Year Year ( ) Year ( ) Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , , $ , % Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , $ , % Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , $ , % __________ ( ) Short-term represent borrowings under various borrowing arrangements, including bank borrowings and unsecured commercial paper borrowings. ( ) The average amount outstanding during the period was computed dividing the sum the daily balances the period the number days the period. ( ) The weighted average interest rate during the period was computed dividing interest expense related the borrowings the average amount outstanding during the year. - SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION ( thousands) Fiscal Year Ended September , September , September , Advertising $ , $ , $ , Advertising includes all direct costs advertising various media and outside advertising agencies. Maintenance and repairs, taxes other than payroll and income taxes, amortization intangible assets, and royalties are not reported none such items exceeded % total net sales shown the related consolidated statements income. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Note due . ( ) Credit Agreement between the Registrant and certain lenders dated December , . ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. Senior / Executive Bonus Plan. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Employment Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ( ) Employment Agreement dated May , between the Registrant and Fred Forsyth. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , between the Registrant and Soren Olsson. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Robert Puette. ( ) Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan ( ) Separation Agreement dated October , between the Registrant and John Sculley. ( ) Separation Agreement dated November , between the Registrant and Albert . Eisenstat. ( ) Separation Agreement and Consulting Services Agreement dated October , and December , , respectively, between the Registrant and Robert Puette. ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCA Corporation (later renamed "Taligent, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCB Corporation (later renamed "Kaleida Labs, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Agreement for Licensing IBM Compilers and Tools dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for the Mac AIX Compiler. ( ) Development and License Agreement dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for Mac- -AIX. ( ) Agreement for Development and Licensing AIX and AIXwindows dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Enterprise Interoperability Master Task Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. ( ) Lease Agreement dated November , between TGL Associates and the Registrant, amended Modification Lease Agreement dated March , . ( ) Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement dated July , between ACI Real Properties, Inc. and Sobrato Development Company # . - ( ) Agreement amending Cupertino Gateway Partners General Partnership Agreement dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Partners and the Registrant. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 9a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'Directors and Executive Officers the Registrant Information regarding directors the Registrant set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - - Directors" and under the heading "Election Directors", which information hereby incorporated reference. Information regarding executive officers the Company found under the caption "Executive Officers the Registrant" Part hereof also incorporated reference into this Item . ', 'item 11. ': 'Executive Compensation Information regarding executive compensation set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions", "Report the Compensation Committee and Stock Option Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation", and "Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Information regarding security ownership certain beneficial owners and management set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership Certain Beneficial Owners and Management", which information hereby incorporated reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions set forth the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions", and "Report the Compensation Committee and Stock Option Committee the Board Directors Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", which information hereby incorporated reference. PART ', 'item 14. ': 'Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports Form - ( ) Items Filed Part Report: . Financial Statements The financial statements the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Financial Statement Schedules The financial statement schedules the Company set forth the Index Consolidated Financial Statements under Part , Item this Form - are hereby incorporated reference. . Exhibits The exhibits listed under Item ( ) are filed part this Form - . ( ) Reports Form - Current Reports Form - were filed Apple with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter fiscal . ( ) Exhibits Exhibit Number Notes* Description - Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . - Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . -Laws the Company, amended through April , . - Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . Form the Company\' % Note due . Credit Agreement between the Registrant and certain lenders dated December , . * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) ** Stock Option Plan, amended. 91K ** Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. 91K ** Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - 92K ** Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . 88K** Form Director Warrant ** Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . 91K ** Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. ** Senior / Executive Bonus Plan. 91K ** Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. 90K ** Employment Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated May , between the Registrant and Fred Forsyth. 90K- ** Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated February , between the Registrant and Soren Olsson. 91K ** Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Robert Puette. 91K ** Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - 93K- ** Executive Restricted Stock Plan 93K ** Separation Agreement dated October , between the Registrant and John Sculley. 93K ** Separation Agreement dated November , between the Registrant and Albert . Eisenstat. 93K ** Separation Agreement and Consulting Services Agreement dated October , and December , , respectively, between the Registrant and Robert Puette. * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) ** Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . 88K- Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. - - Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCA Corporation (later renamed "Taligent, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. - - Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCB Corporation (later renamed "Kaleida Labs, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. - - Agreement for Licensing IBM Compilers and Tools dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for the Mac AIX Compiler. - - Development and License Agreement dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for Mac- -AIX. - - Agreement for Development and Licensing AIX and AIXwindows dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. - - Enterprise Interoperability Master Task Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and IBM. 91K Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. 92K Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. Lease Agreement dated November , between TGL Associates and the Registrant, amended Modification Lease Agreement dated March , . 92K Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement dated July , between ACI Real Properties, Inc. and Sobrato Development Company # . * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. ( ) Exhibits (continued) - 92K Agreement amending Cupertino Gateway Partners General Partnership Agreement dated November , . Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Partners and the Registrant. - 92K First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule * Footnotes appear pages - . ** Represents management contract compensatory plan arrangement. NOTES ( ) Copies these lease agreements have been omitted because they are substantially identical all material respects the Lease Agreement filed Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , except set forth Schedule attached such Exhibit . ( ) Copies these amendments have been omitted because they are substantially identical all material respects the First Amendment Lease Agreement filed Exhibit - . 88K Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - (file . - ) filed July , . 88K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Confidential treatment certain portions these agreements has been granted. - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Registration Statement Form - filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission May , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended March , . 90K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 90K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . 91K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Current Report Form - dated October , (the "October Form - "). - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . NOTES (continued) - - Incorporated reference Exhibit the October Form - . 92K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Annual Report Form - for the fiscal year ended September , (the " Form - "). 93K- Incorporated reference Exhibit the Form - . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended June , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended December , . Incorporated reference the exhibit that number the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended April , . Incorporated reference Exhibit the Company\' Quarterly Report Form - for the quarter ended July , . ( ) Financial Statement Schedules See Item ( )( ) this Form - . (Exhibit ) CONSENT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS consent the incorporation reference the Registration Statements (Form - Nos. - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - , - and - ) pertaining the and Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan, the Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, and the Form Director Warrant Apple Computer, Inc. and Form - . - and the related Prospectuses our report dated October , with respect the consolidated financial statements and schedules Apple Computer, Inc. included this Annual Report (Form - ) for the year ended September , . / Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP San Jose, California December , SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. APPLE COMPUTER, INC. (Registrant) : / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER MICHAEL . SPINDLER President and Chief Executive Officer December , KNOW ALL PERSONS THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Michael . Spindler, Joseph . Graziano, and Edward . Stead, jointly and severally, his her attorneys- -fact, each with the power substitution, for him her any and all capacities, sign any amendments this Report Form - , and file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys- -fact, his substitute substitutes, may cause done virtue hereof. Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf the Registrant and the capacities and the dates indicated: / / MICHAEL . SPINDLER / / JOSEPH . GRAZIANO MICHAEL . SPINDLER JOSEPH . GRAZIANO President and Executive Vice President Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Executive Officer), (Principal Financial Officer), and Director and Director December , December , / / JEANNE SEELEY / / ARMAS . MARKKULA, . JEANNE SEELEY ARMAS . MARKKULA, . Vice President, Finance, and Chairman the Board Corporate Controller and Director December , December , / / PETER . CRISP / / BERNARD GOLDSTEIN PETER . CRISP BERNARD GOLDSTEIN Director Director December , December , / / . JURGEN HINTZ / / KATHERINE HUDSON . JURGEN HINTZ KATHERINE HUDSON Director Director December , December , SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES NOTES RECEIVABLE FROM SHAREHOLDERS ( thousands) Balance Balance Beginning End Name Debtor Period Additions Collections Period Notes* Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , John Sculley $ , $ $ , $ -- ( )( ) The above Notes Receivable from Shareholders are presented deduction from shareholders\' equity since they are related the sale Common Stock the Company officers, directors, and employees under stock option and purchase plans. Notes Receivable from Shareholders does not include accrued interest. The notes receivable are secured pledge the shares issued, less the pro rata release the Company pledged shares based the percentage the principal amount the notes paid. The notes bear interest % per annum. *Footnotes appear page - . - SCHEDULE (continued) OTHER ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE ( thousands) Balance Amounts Balance Beginning Written End Period Additions Collections Off Period Notes* Year Ended September , $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- Year Ended September , Donald Casey $ $ -- $ -- $ $ -- Paul Gavarini -- -- -- James Mullen -- -- -- $ $ -- $ $ $ -- Year Ended September , Donald Casey $ $ -- $ -- $ -- $ Paul Gavarini -- -- -- James Mullen -- -- John Sculley , , -- -- ( )( ) $ , $ $ , $ -- $ The above Other Accounts Receivable bore interest from % % and were payable various dates through April , . NOTES ( ) Director the Company the end the period indicated. ( ) Executive Officer the Company the end the period indicated. - SCHEDULE VIII APPLE COMPUTER, INC. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES ( thousands) Charged Allowance for Beginning Costs and Ending Doubtful Accounts: Balance Expenses Deductions( ) Balance Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , Year Ended September , $ , $ , $ , $ , ____________ ( ) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net recoveries. - SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS ( thousands) Weighted Maximum Average Average Category Weighted Amount Amount Interest Aggregate Average Outstanding Outstanding Rate Short-term Year-end Interest During the During the During the Borrowings( ) Balance Rate Year Year ( ) Year ( ) Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , , $ , % Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , $ , % Year Ended September , : Short-term Borrowings $ , % $ , $ , % __________ ( ) Short-term represent borrowings under various borrowing arrangements, including bank borrowings and unsecured commercial paper borrowings. ( ) The average amount outstanding during the period was computed dividing the sum the daily balances the period the number days the period. ( ) The weighted average interest rate during the period was computed dividing interest expense related the borrowings the average amount outstanding during the year. - SCHEDULE APPLE COMPUTER, INC. SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION ( thousands) Fiscal Year Ended September , September , September , Advertising $ , $ , $ , Advertising includes all direct costs advertising various media and outside advertising agencies. Maintenance and repairs, taxes other than payroll and income taxes, amortization intangible assets, and royalties are not reported none such items exceeded % total net sales shown the related consolidated statements income. - INDEX EXHIBITS Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California January , . ( ) Amendment Restated Articles Incorporation, filed with the Secretary State the State California February , . ( ) -Laws the Company, amended through April , . ( ) Common Shares Rights Agreement dated May , between the Company and the First National Bank Boston, Rights Agent. ( ) Indenture dated February , , between the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York (the "Indenture"). ( ) Supplemental Indenture dated February , , among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company New York, resigning trustee, and Citibank, ., successor trustee. ( ) Officers\' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant Section the Indenture, establishing the terms the Company\' % Notes due . ( ) Form the Company\' % Note due . ( ) Credit Agreement between the Registrant and certain lenders dated December , . ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended. ( ) Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan. ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated effective October , . - ( ) Amendment Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan dated March , . ( ) Form Director Warrant ( ) Stock Option Plan, amended through January , . ( ) Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, amended. Senior / Executive Bonus Plan. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and each officer the Registrant. ( ) Employment Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and Ian Diery. ( ) Employment Agreement dated May , between the Registrant and Fred Forsyth. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Joseph . Graziano. ( ) Employment Agreement dated February , between the Registrant and Soren Olsson. ( ) Employment Agreement dated June , between the Registrant and Robert Puette. ( ) Agreement dated April , between the Registrant and Michael . Spindler. - ( ) Executive Restricted Stock Plan ( ) Separation Agreement dated October , between the Registrant and John Sculley. ( ) Separation Agreement dated November , between the Registrant and Albert . Eisenstat. ( ) Separation Agreement and Consulting Services Agreement dated October , and December , , respectively, between the Registrant and Robert Puette. ( ) Executive Severance Plan amended and restated effective July , . ( ) Master OEM Agreement dated January , between the Company and Tokyo Electric . Ltd. ( ) Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCA Corporation (later renamed "Taligent, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Stock Purchase and Stockholder Agreement dated September , among MDCB Corporation (later renamed "Kaleida Labs, Inc."), the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page ( ) Agreement for Licensing IBM Compilers and Tools dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for the Mac AIX Compiler. ( ) Development and License Agreement dated September , between IBM and the Registrant for Mac- -AIX. ( ) Agreement for Development and Licensing AIX and AIXwindows dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power Architecture) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Participation the Customer Design Center the Registrant dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Agreement for Purchase IBM Products (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated September , between IBM and the Registrant. ( ) Enterprise Interoperability Master Task Agreement dated September , between the Registrant and IBM. ( ) Agreement dated October , between Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant. ( ) Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January , between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc. ( ) Lease Agreement dated November , between TGL Associates and the Registrant, amended Modification Lease Agreement dated March , . ( ) Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement dated July , between ACI Real Properties, Inc. and Sobrato Development Company # . - ( ) Agreement amending Cupertino Gateway Partners General Partnership Agreement dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Partners and the Registrant. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. INDEX EXHIBITS (Continued) Exhibit Index Number Notes Description Page - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . ( ) Lease Agreement (Building ) dated July , between Cupertino Gateway Partners and the Registrant. - ( ) First Amendment Lease (Building ) dated November , . Computation per share earnings. Subsidiaries the Company. Consent Independent Auditors. Power Attorney. Financial Data Schedule. ( ) Incorporated reference page indicated. ', 'item 15. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}