{'item 1. ': 'BUSINESS GENERAL Our mission enable people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. work achieve our mission through technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate. Since our founding , have been leader this transformation. develop and market software, services and solutions that deliver new opportunity, convenience, and value people\x92 lives. PRODUCT SEGMENTS Our product segments provide management with comprehensive financial view our key businesses. The segments provide framework for the alignment strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and for the timely and rational allocation development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. The segments also help focus strategic planning efforts key objectives and initiatives across our broad businesses. Due our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments. Therefore, these segments are not designed measure operating income loss that directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and motivate shared effort. Due our integrated business structure, segments should not viewed discrete easily separable businesses. Our seven product segments are: Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. See Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements for financial information regarding segment reporting. Client. The Microsoft Windows operating system integrates wide range applications, services and hardware familiar way, enabling people and organizations use technology with ease and confidence. The Client segment has overall responsibility for product delivery, engineering, and technical architecture for the Windows product family, and our relationships with personal computer manufacturers, including multinational and regional original equipment manufacturer (OEM) accounts. The segment includes sales and marketing expenses for the Windows Client operating system and product development efforts for the Windows platform. Client revenue growth correlated with the growth purchases personal computers (PCs) from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The Client segment includes Windows and other standard Windows operating systems. Windows extends the personal computing experience uniting PCs, devices, and services, while enhancing reliability, security, and performance. With emerging form factors such the Tablet and Media Center, and with investments technology such Windows Media, the Windows continues evolve with innovations that enable people use computers more ways and more places. PAGE Part Item Windows Home Edition designed for individuals families and includes capabilities for digital photos, music, and video, home networking, and communications. Windows Professional, designed for business users and people who demand the most from their computing experience, includes all the features Home Edition, along with advanced security, performance, manageability, and multilingual features help customers improve their productivity and connectivity. Windows -Bit Edition meets the demands specialized technical workstation users. Retail sales and marketing pre-packaged units Client products occurs through the Home and Entertainment segment. The next generation the Windows operating system, Windows Vista, currently under development. This development phase represents significant investment for the Client business and expect that this will result the most manageable and powerful operating system product ever released Microsoft for both our business and consumer markets. While features and functions have not been finalized, Windows Vista will include significant advances security, digital media, user interfaces, and other areas that are expected enhance the user and developer experience. are targeting broad availability this operating system for the first half fiscal year . Server and Tools. The Server and Tools segment develops and markets Windows Server System products, including Windows Server operating systems. Windows Server System integrated server infrastructure software that designed support end- -end software applications and tools built the Windows Server operating system. addition, the segment provides information developers and information technology ( ) professionals about the extended Microsoft platform through variety content offerings, such Web-based training. Through this segment, offer broad range consulting services for advanced technology requirements, including custom solution services, enterprise application planning, architecture and design services, and proof- -concept services. also provide product support services corporations and other large customers. The Server and Tools segment also includes: developer tools, training, and certification; Microsoft Press; the Enterprise and Partner Group, which responsible for sales, partner management and partner programs for the enterprise business; and the Public Sector sales and marketing organization. Products Server and Tools provide wide range capabilities that include messaging and collaboration, database management, -commerce, and mobile information access. These products are designed work seamlessly with one another and with advances applications and development tools. This architecture designed help simplify the design, development, deployment, and management software applications and tools that customers can focus less integrating systems and training users, and more adding strategic value their businesses. Windows Server System also readily integrates with customers\x92 existing non-Microsoft systems, through support for open standards such HTTP and XML, and through -going support for XML-based Web services. Windows Server delivers platform for powering connected applications, networks, and Web services from the work group the data center. SQL Server relational database management system for rapidly delivering the next generation scalable -commerce, line- -business, and data-warehousing solutions. Exchange Server, business tool for -mail collaboration and messaging, enables information workers gain access critical business communications. Systems Management Server (SMS) provides comprehensive solution for change and configuration management information systems that enables organizations provide relevant software and updates users quickly and cost-effectively. Small Business Server helps small businesses more with business server solution that includes messaging and collaboration, security-enhanced Internet access, protected data storage, reliable printing, the ability run line- -business applications, and faxing. BizTalk Server designed help customers efficiently and effectively integrate systems, employees, and trading partners through manageable business processes, enabling them automate and orchestrate interactions flexible and highly automated manner. Developer tools focus coordinating the overall programming model for the client and server and creating tools for developing Microsoft NET-connected applications and services. During fiscal year , Server and Tools plans release major updates several products, including new versions SQL Server, Visual Studio and BizTalk Server, and the beta version the next generation Windows Server. Server and Tools uses multiple distribution channels including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. The licenses are sold both one-time licenses and multi-year licenses depending upon the needs different customer segments. Approximately % Server revenue comes from multi-year licensing agreements, % purchased through fully packaged product and transactional volume licensing programs, and % comes from licenses sold OEMs. PAGE Part Item Information Worker. The Information Worker segment responsible for developing and delivering software solutions that enable organizations meet core objectives empowering their people transform information into impact. These solutions are important part organization\x92 application architecture, enabling them respond more effectively new opportunities and challenges through more effective use their people and information. The Information Worker segment has expanded its focus beyond personal productivity look how people interact with the flow information organization. Doing has provided the opportunity deliver more value small, medium, and large organizations and home, student, and teacher segments through software and software-based services. The most recent wave Microsoft Office offerings, released market the first half fiscal year , represents evolution from suite personal productivity products more comprehensive and integrated system programs, servers, and services designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. The Microsoft Office system includes the Microsoft Office Editions, which include (depending upon the edition): Microsoft Office Outlook ; Microsoft Office Excel ; Microsoft Office PowerPoint ; Microsoft Office Word ; Microsoft Office Access ; Microsoft Office InfoPath ; and Microsoft Office Publisher . Other products the Microsoft Office System include: Microsoft Office Visio ; Microsoft Office Project ; Microsoft Office Project Server ; Microsoft Office OneNote ; Microsoft Office FrontPage ; Microsoft Office Live Communications Server ; Microsoft Office Live Meeting ; Microsoft Office Communicator ; and Microsoft Office SharePoint Portal Server . The Information Worker business also offers Virtual Office, hoc, peer- -peer collaboration solution. Historically, approximately % Information Worker billed revenue comes from multi-year license agreements with large enterprises. Revenues from these licenses generally depend upon the number information workers licensed enterprise. Therefore, our revenue from this category agreements relatively independent the number PCs sold given year, but rather depends the number employees given enterprise. Consequently, general employment levels, particularly North America and Europe, Middle East, and Africa, significantly affect Information Worker revenue. Approximately % Information Worker revenue comes from new licenses acquired through fully packaged product and transactional volume licensing programs individual consumers and enterprises all sizes. Most this revenue sensitive information technology budgets, which often depend general economic conditions. The remaining approximately % Information Worker revenue from licenses OEMs for new PCs and through sales retail packaged products and affected the relative level shipments. The Information Worker segment releases most products \x93wave\x94 approach, with major release every - months. New products and investment areas will occasionally fall outside the wave cycle. fiscal year , the Information Worker segment will release solutions outside the next wave products business intelligence, small business accounting, and real time communications, while also preparing the sales team, partners, and customers for the next full wave products, code named Office , due for release during the first half fiscal year . Microsoft Business Solutions. The Microsoft Business Solutions segment responsible for developing and marketing offerings manage financial, customer relationship and supply chain management functions for small and midsize businesses, large organizations and divisions global enterprises. Delivered through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services, these integrated, adaptable business solutions work like and with familiar Microsoft software streamline processes across entire business. Microsoft Business Solutions now includes the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization, which previously had been included Information Worker. SMS& supports small and mid-market customers for all Microsoft products and services. Microsoft Business Solutions focuses providing continuous innovation that integrates with solutions across Microsoft Office, Windows Server System and other Microsoft tools and technologies, and that provides rich functionality with high adaptability lower costs. The solutions are designed easy use and empower people more productive. result our platform approach, the business solutions category enables broad ecosystem vertical partners and independent software vendors that offer tailored functionality our target customers. The segment consists Line Business Solutions manage financial management and supply chain management functions (Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Solomon and Microsoft Axapta); solutions manage customer relationships (Microsoft CRM); vertical solutions for small and midsized retailers PAGE Part Item (Microsoft Point Sale and Microsoft Retail Management System); and other business applications and services including the Microsoft Partner Program. The Business Solutions & team also develops Office Small Business Accounting and Business Contact Manager for Outlook, which are marketed Information Worker. fiscal year , Microsoft Business Solutions will release upgrades and updates its core line business solutions including releases for Microsoft CRM, Microsoft Axapta, Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision and Microsoft Solomon. These releases will focus user experience, web services, contextual business intelligence, and portals that interoperate with other Microsoft technologies. MSN. MSN responsible for delivering online services that seek empower users bringing them closer the people and information that matter most them. MSN provides personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and information services such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN manages many its own properties, including health, autos, and shopping. MSN also creates alliances with leading third parties for many channels, including top partners like MSNBC com, joint venture between NBC Universal and Microsoft; Foxsports com, property Fox Entertainment Group; Expedia com; Match com, operating unit InterActiveCorp; and CareerBuilder com. MSN provides variety paid solutions including MSN Internet Access, Premium Web Services (consisting MSN Internet Software Subscription, MSN Hotmail Plus, MSN Bill Pay, and MSN Radio Plus), and MSN Mobile services. The segment generates revenue primarily from advertisers MSN, from consumers and partners, through subscriptions and transactions, and from subscribers MSN narrowband Internet access. According studies performed Nielsen Net Ratings and comScore Media Metrix, MSN Web sites are among the most popular the Internet, visited more than million unique users every month. MSN Hotmail one the world\x92 largest -mail services with more than million accounts, and MSN Messenger one the world\x92 largest instant-messaging services with more than million accounts. MSN also provides variety paid solutions including MSN Internet Access and MSN Premium Web Services. Mobile and Embedded Devices. The Mobile and Embedded Devices segment responsible for the development and marketing products that extend the advantages the Windows platform many types devices, including mobile devices that incorporate voice, personal information management, and media capabilities, and wide variety other devices designed improve people\x92 personal and work lives. Microsoft\x92 vision for mobile devices rooted the convergence the computing and wireless industries, which brings new opportunities improve communication and information access for customers. see software key differentiator making smart devices and wireless data services valuable customers through rich experiences such mobile messaging, location-based services, media, and speech recognition. are working closely with mobile operators, and hardware and software partners accelerate the development and availability smart devices and services, and provide broad range choices for customers. The segment also responsible for managing our company-wide sales and customer relations with mobile device manufacturers, and with host and network equipment and service providers, including telecommunications and cable and wireless companies. The segment consists the Windows Mobile software platform, the Windows Embedded device operating system family, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. The Windows Mobile software platform provides familiar and integrated customer experience that the basis for specific devices like the Pocket , Pocket Phone Edition, Smartphone, and Portable Media Center. Windows Embedded, including Windows , Windows Embedded, and Windows Embedded for Point Service, family embedded device software platforms used non- computing devices. Windows Embedded software used widely advanced consumer electronics devices, including digital televisions, Internet Protocol ( )-based set top boxes, network gateways, and portable media players, and enterprise devices such industrial controllers, retail point- -sale systems, and voice-over- phones. The MapPoint family location-enabled products and services includes the MapPoint Web Service, hosted programmable XML Web service that allows developers integrate location intelligence applications, business processes and Web sites, and business and consumer oriented mapping -ROM products. Windows Automotive automotive-grade software platform that provides developers with the building blocks quickly and reliably create broad range advanced telematics solutions for vehicles. fiscal year , Mobile and Embedded Devices expects release added functionality the Windows Mobile platform through the Microsoft Enterprise Feature Pack and the Exchange Service Pack . Effective July , , functions related MapPoint Mobile and Embedded Devices have been moved MSN. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN reported results. PAGE Part Item Home and Entertainment. The Home and Entertainment segment responsible for development, production, and marketing for the Xbox video game system, including hardware, third-party games, games published under the Microsoft label, Xbox and Xbox Live operations, marketing, research, and sales and support. The segment also leads the development efforts our Home Products Division (HPD) product lines. addition. carries out all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office (for which receives inter-segment commission), the Windows operating systems, Xbox, games, and HPD products. also responsible for the development, sales, and deployment Microsoft\x92 platform products for the interactive television industry. Microsoft Xbox, released fiscal year , video game console system that delivers high-quality graphics and audio experiences. Xbox , unveiled May , our next-generation video game and entertainment system that expect available the first half fiscal year Europe, Japan and North America. addition Xbox, offer several types entertainment products, including software games, online games, and console games. HPD includes Microsoft\x92 line consumer software and hardware products, such the Encarta line learning products and services, application software for Macintosh computers, the Works productivity suite, and Microsoft hardware products such mice, keyboards, and game controllers. The MSTV group develops the MSTV Foundation Edition and Internet Protocol (IPTV) products. OPERATIONS serve the needs customers around the world and improve the quality and usability products international markets, \x93localize\x94 many our products reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our research and development facilities are located primarily Redmond, Washington with smaller facilities located Mountain View, California; Fargo, North Dakota; Beijing, China; Dublin, Ireland; Vedbaek, Denmark; Hyderabad, India; Haifa, Israel; and Cambridge, England. have regional operations centers Ireland; Singapore; Reno, Nevada; Fargo, North Dakota; and Redmond. The centers support all operations their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing and vendor management and logistics. The regional center Dublin, Ireland, supports the EMEA region; the center Singapore supports the Japan, Greater China and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers Reno, Fargo, and Redmond support North America and Latin America. contract most our manufacturing activities third parties. Outside manufacturers produce the Xbox, various retail software packaged products, and Microsoft hardware. Our products may include some components that are available from only one limited sources. Key components that are currently obtained from single source include the Xbox central processing unit (CPU) from Intel Corporation and the Xbox graphics processing unit (GPU) from NVIDIA Corporation. Similarly, our upcoming Xbox console will also include certain key components that will supplied least initially single source: the CPU which will purchased from IBM Corporation and the graphics chips and embedded DRAM chips for the GPU which will purchased from TSMC and NEC, respectively. Though have chosen initially source these key Xbox components from single supplier, are under obligation exclusively source components from these vendors the future. Beyond the exceptions noted, generally have the ability use other custom manufacturers the current vendor becomes unavailable. generally have multiple sources for raw materials, supplies, and components, and are often able acquire component parts and materials volume discount basis. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years , , and , research and development expense was $ billion, $ billion, and $ billion respectively. Those amounts represented %, %, and %, respectively, revenue each those years. plan continue significant investment broad range research and product development. Most our software products are developed internally. also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization certain products. believe are not materially dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties relating the development our products. Internal development allows maintain closer technical control over our products. also gives the freedom decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should implemented. Product documentation generally also created internally. strive obtain information the earliest possible time about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, provide application vendors with range resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. PAGE Part Item Business and Product Development Strategy. key factor affecting Microsoft\x92 growth innovation. fiscal year , filed for more than , . patents for new technologies. continue our long-term commitment research and development, including advanced work aimed important innovations wide spectrum technologies: tools and platform; communication, collaboration and expression; information access and organization; entertainment; business and -commerce; and devices. Through innovations these areas, expect grow revenue via three principal strategies: \x95 Growing our anchor businesses. The markets for our Client, Server & Tools, and Information Worker businesses are continuing grow result growth hardware shipments and software upgrades. believe the growth our anchor businesses can accelerated our forthcoming innovations, including the Windows Vista operating system, the Office upgrade the Microsoft Office system, and new products from our Server & Tools business. addition, see opportunities grow these businesses making inroads against software piracy. the world\x92 emerging economies develop and integrate more fully into the global economy, expect that intellectual property will more widely and effectively protected, and the current widespread use unlicensed software will gradually diminish. the same time, are developing new products and services that are specifically designed appeal the unique requirements emerging markets. Among them are products designed readily available and affordable for first-time users. also expect our anchor businesses grow through successfully competing against alternative solutions. servers, for example, expect continue gaining customers result migration from UNIX. particularly see opportunities the markets for Web servers, data centers, -mail servers and high-performance computing. \x95 Expanding our innovation portfolio. Across each our businesses, see opportunities for growth through expansion the technologies offer. Within our anchor businesses, are working develop new technologies that offer greater value meeting many targeted customer needs: workflow management, real-time communications, document management, collaboration, terminal services, search and portals, unified messaging, media technologies management, anti-spam and anti-malware protection, network edge security, desktop access enterprise applications, business intelligence, rights management services, and storage. expect offer these technologies new products and also higher-value versions existing products. our emerging businesses, are also moving forward with broad portfolio products, with goal providing best- -class products every major market where compete, such gaming, software for mobile devices, small business applications and interactive television. \x95 Delivering software services. During the past several years, have gained extensive experience providing variety online consumer services, many them supported advertising subscriptions. These services include the world\x92 largest email service, one the world\x92 most popular online portals, MSN Search for the Web and the desktop, and Xbox Live, the world\x92 largest online gaming service. also have begun develop services for business, such Outlook Live and Office Live Meeting, which enable workers collaborate interactively without the cost and disruption business travel. expect pursue opportunities offer other new services both consumers and businesses. Our announced plans acquire FrontBridge Technologies, for example, will enable provide businesses with -mail filtering and security help protect the health their networks and the security their data. expect that services will important component our future growth. DISTRIBUTION, SALES AND MARKETING distribute our products primarily through the following channels: OEM; distributors and resellers; and online services. Our six major geographic sales and marketing organizations are the North American Region; the Latin American Region; the Europe, Middle East, and Africa Region (EMEA); Japan; the Asia-Pacific Region; and Greater China. OEM. Our operating systems are licensed primarily OEMs under agreements that grant the OEMs the right build computing devices based our operating systems, principally PCs. Under similar arrangements, also market and license certain server operating systems, desktop applications, hardware devices, and consumer software products OEMs. have OEM agreements covering one more our products with virtually all the major OEMs, including Acer, Dell, Fujitsu, Fujitsu Siemens Computers, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, NEC, Samsung, Sony, and Toshiba. substantial amount OEM business also conducted with system builders, which are low-volume customized vendors operating local markets. PAGE Part Item Distributors and Resellers. license software organizations under arrangements that allow the end-user customer acquire multiple licenses products. Organizations license our products primarily through large account resellers (LARs), direct market resellers, and value-added resellers. Many organizations that license products through enterprise agreements (EAs) now transact directly with , with sales support from our Enterprise Software Advisor channel partners. These Enterprise Software Advisors typically are also authorized LARs and operate resellers for our other licensing programs. Although each type reselling partner reaches organizations all sizes, LARs are primarily engaged with large organizations and value-added resellers typically reach the breadth small- and medium-sized organizations. Some our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some our largest resellers include Software Spectrum, Software House International, Dell, CDW, and Insight Enterprises. Our business solutions software offerings are licensed enterprises through global network channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. distribute our finished goods products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain our products primarily through retail outlets, including Best Buy, Wal-Mart, and Target. have network field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers and provides product training and sales support. Our arrangements for organizations acquire multiple licenses products are designed provide them with means doing without having acquire separate packaged product through retail channels. delivering organizational licensing arrangements the market, use different programs designed provide flexibility for organizations various sizes. While these programs may differ various parts the world, generally they are follows: Open. Designed primarily for small- -medium organizations ( over licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, rights future versions software products over specified time period (generally two years). The offering that conveys rights future versions certain software product over the contract period called Software Assurance. Software Assurance also provides support, tools, and training help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Under the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, licenses with Software Assurance. They can also renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Select. Designed primarily for medium- -large organizations (greater than licenses), this program allows customers acquire perpetual licenses and, the customer\x92 election, Software Assurance, which consists rights future versions certain software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Similar the Open program, customers can acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with Software Assurance, renew Software Assurance upon the expiration existing volume licensing agreements. Enterprise Agreement. The Enterprise Agreement targeted medium and large organizations that want acquire perpetual licenses software products for all substantial parts their enterprise, along with rights future versions software products, support, tools, and training over specified time period (generally three years). Enterprise Subscription Agreement. The Enterprise Subscription Agreement (ESA) time-based, multi-year licensing agreement. Under ESA, customers acquire the right use the current version software products and the future versions that are released during the three-year term the agreement. the end the term, customers may either renew their ESA exercise buy-out option obtain perpetual licenses for the latest version the covered products. they not elect one these options, then all previously covered software must uninstalled. Online Services. distribute online content and services through MSN and other online services. MSN delivers Internet access and various premium services and tools consumers. MSN also delivers online -mail and messaging communication services and information services such online search and premium content. Home and Entertainment operates the Xbox Live service which allows customers participate the gaming experience with other subscribers online. Microsoft Business Solutions operates the Microsoft Small Business Center portal, which delivered online. This portal provides tools and expertise for small-business owners build, market, and manage their businesses online. Other services delivered online include Microsoft Developer Networks (MSDN) subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources support our partners developing and selling our products and solutions. PAGE Part Item CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet Service Providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small- and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through resellers and OEMs. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % fiscal year and revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and cover broad array products including Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office, and server products. single customer accounted for more than % revenue . Our practice ship our products promptly upon receipt purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog not significant. COMPETITION Every segment the software business competitive and subject rapid technological change, evolving customer requirements, and changing business models. face significant competition all areas our business and intense competition many them. Because technology advances rapidly, competitors can quickly render existing technologies less valuable. Customer requirements and preferences continually change other information technologies emerge become less expensive, and concerns such security and privacy become more important. Our direct competitors include firms that have adopted the non-commercial software model. These firms typically provide customers with open source software nominal cost and earn their revenue complementary services and products. This approach allows these firms compete without having bear the full costs software research and development. sense, also compete with pirated copies our own software. Global software piracy \x96 the unlawful copying and distribution our copyrighted software products \x96 deprives significant amounts revenue annual basis. addition, future versions our products compete with the existing versions, which our licensed customers may choose continue use indefinitely. This means that future versions must deliver significant additional value order induce existing customers purchase new version our product. Our competitive position may adversely affected one more the factors described this section, yet unidentified additional factors that may arise. Client. Although are the leader operating system software products, face strong competition from well-established companies and entities with differing approaches the market. Competing commercial software products, including variants Unix, are supplied competitors such IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Apple Computer, Sun Microsystems and others, which are vertically integrated both software development and hardware manufacturing and have developed operating systems that they preinstall their own computers. Personal computer OEMs who preinstall third-party operating systems may also license these firms\x92 operating systems. The Linux operating system, which also derived from Unix and available without payment under General Public License, has gained increasing acceptance competitive pressures lead personal computer OEMs reduce costs. The Microsoft Windows operating systems also face competition from alternative platforms and new devices that may reduce consumer demand for traditional personal computers. Competitors such Mozilla offer software that competes with the Internet Explorer Web browsing capabilities our Windows operating system products. Apple Computer, Real Networks, and many others compete with the media playback capabilities (Windows Media Player) our Windows operating system products. believe current and future versions these and other aspects Windows will continue compete effectively with non-Microsoft browsers, media players, and other non-Microsoft programs important attributes such features, functionality, and security. believe our operating system products compete effectively delivering innovative software, easy- -use interface, compatibility with broad range hardware and software applications, and the largest support network for any operating system. Server and Tools. Our server operating system products face intense competition from wide variety competing server operating systems and server applications, offered firms with variety market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems and others offer their own variant Unix preinstalled server hardware, and nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system. IBM\x92 endorsement Linux has accelerated its acceptance alternative both traditional Unix and Windows server operating systems. Linux\x92 competitive position has also benefited from the large number compatible applications now produced many leading commercial software developers and non-commercial software developers. number companies supply versions Linux, including Novell and Red Hat. PAGE Part Item compete the business providing enterprise-wide computing solutions with several companies that provide competing solutions and middleware technology platforms. IBM and Sun Microsystems lead group companies focused the Java Platform Enterprise Edition (J2EE). Commercial software developers that provide competing server applications for -based distributed client server environments include Oracle, IBM, and Computer Associates. Numerous commercial software vendors offer competing commercial software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, and -business servers. addition, IBM has large installed base Lotus Notes and :Mail, both which compete with our collaboration and -mail products. There are also significant number non-commercial software products that compete with our solutions, including the widely-deployed Apache Web Server. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from BEA Systems, Borland, IBM, Macromedia, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and other companies. believe that our server products provide customers with significant advantages innovation, performance, total costs ownership, productivity, applications development tools and environment, compatibility with broad base hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Information Worker. While are the leader business and personal productivity software applications for personal computers, competitors the Microsoft Office System include many software application vendors such Apple, Corel, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Novell, Red Hat, and local application developers Europe and Asia. IBM (Smartsuite) and Corel (WordPerfect Suite) have significant installed bases with their office productivity products. Apple may preinstall certain their application software products various models their PCs, competing directly with our applications. The OpenOffice org project provides freely downloadable cross-platform application that also has been adapted various commercial software vendors (Sun, Novell, Red Hat, IBM, and others) sell under their brand. Corel\x92 suite, and many different local software suites around the world are aggressively priced for OEMs preinstall low-priced PCs. addition traditional client-side applications, Web-based offerings such SimDesk can also provide alternative Microsoft Office System products. Further, customers have increasingly demanded additional functionality and products, including new server and service offerings, additional vendors are competing the Information Worker segment, most notably document management, collaboration tools, real time messaging and business intelligence. just one example, Microsoft competes with IBM broadly messaging and collaboration with our approach that spans multiple Information Worker products. believe that our products compete effectively through ease use, improving users\x92 personal productivity, providing tools for effective teaming and collaboration, better information management and control, and for many customers, lower total cost ownership than alternatives. Microsoft Business Solutions. The products Microsoft Business Solutions are targeted small and midsized businesses (SMB) and larger organizations and divisions global enterprises. The SMB segment for business solutions highly fragmented with many companies this business. Well-known vendors focused providing solutions for small and midsized businesses, such Intuit and Sage, compete against for portion this segment. The segment consisting large organizations and divisions global enterprises continues intensely competitive with small number primary vendors providing products and services such SAP, Oracle Peoplesoft and Siebel. addition these large enterprise-focused vendors are repositioning some their business applications focus the SMB segment, and divisions global enterprises, and thus also compete against for portion the market opportunity. Our business solution products also compete with hosted solutions offered companies such Salesforce com. addition, there are thousands other vendors specific localities industries that offer their own solutions. believe that our business solutions across financial management, supply chain management, and customer relationship management (CRM) compete effectively our target segments offering integrated solutions that address multiple segment needs across industries and vertical markets through consistent innovation that are delivered through growing network partners and Independent Software Vendors (ISVs). MSN. MSN competes with Yahoo!, Google, AOL, and vast array Web sites and portals that offer content and online services all types end users, and compete with these organizations provide advertising opportunities for merchants reach their audiences. MSN also competes for narrowband internet access users with Earthlink, AOL and other ISPs for dial- internet access the United States. The global online advertising market has grown significantly over the past several years, and anticipate this trend continue especially display and PAGE Part Item search-based advertising. result competitors are aggressively developing internet services that provide enhanced functionality for end users communication services, improvements information services such internet search, and advertising infrastructure and support services including more effective ways connecting advertisers with audiences. have built our own algorithmic search engine provide end users with more relevant search results, broader selection content, and expanded set search services, and are investing support the continued growth our advertising business. are also investing our communication services, and our technology, operations, and sales efforts support the continued growth our advertising business. will continue introduce new products and services aimed attracting additional users improving the user experience effort increase our satisfaction levels with our end users and merchant customers. Due the continuing trend consumers migrating from narrowband broadband Internet access, expect our narrowband Internet access subscriber base continue decline. believe that can compete effectively across the breadth our internet services providing users with software innovation the form information and communication services that help them find, discover, and experience what they want online and providing merchants with effective advertising results through improved systems and sales support. Mobile and Embedded Devices. Windows Mobile software faces substantial competition from Nokia, Openwave Systems, PalmSource, QUALCOMM, and Symbian. The embedded operating system segment highly fragmented with many competitive offerings. Key competitors include IBM, Wind River, and versions embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. MapPoint competitors include DeLorme, MapInfo, Mapquest com, Rand McNally, Webraska Mobile Technologies, Google, and Yahoo!. The telematics market also highly fragmented, with competitive offerings from IBM and automotive suppliers building various real-time operating system platforms from commercial Linux vendors, QNX Software Systems, Wind River, and others. believe that our products compete effectively providing familiar development framework that enables developers easily write and deploy innovative applications for mobile embedded devices; providing flexible platform that allows customers and partners build differentiated and profitable business models; and providing end users significant benefits such ease use, personal productivity, and better information management and control. Home and Entertainment. The home and entertainment business highly competitive and characterized limited platform life cycles, frequent introductions new products and titles, and the development new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized significant price competition. anticipate continued pricing pressure from our competitors. From time time, have responded this pressure reducing prices certain products. Our competitors vary size from very small companies with limited resources very large, diversified corporations with substantial financial and marketing resources. compete primarily the basis price, product quality and variety, timing product releases, and effectiveness distribution and marketing. Our Xbox hardware business competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both which have large established base customers. The video game consoles have average year lifecycles. have announced the expected release the first half fiscal year new console, the Xbox . Sony and Nintendo have also announced new versions their game consoles. Success this transition the next generation consoles depends the computational power the console, the ease developing games for the console, the ability provide new revenue sources such advertising and downloadable content, and providing exclusive game content that sought after gamers. believe the Xbox positioned well against competitive console products based significant innovation the hardware architecture, new developer tools, expanded revenue sources, and continued strong exclusive content from our party game franchises such Halo. addition competing against software published for non-Xbox platforms, our games business also competes with numerous companies that have been licensed develop and publish software for the Xbox console. These competitors include Acclaim Entertainment, Activision, Atari, Capcom, Eidos, Electronic Arts, Sega, Take-Two Interactive, Tecmo, THQ, and Ubi Soft, among others. Our hardware products face aggressive competition from computer and other hardware manufacturers, many which are also current potential partners. Our MSTV business faces competition primarily from hoc, point-solutions that address sub-segments the delivery platform, but not provide end- -end solutions for the network operator. Our largest MSTV competitors include IBM, Cisco, UTStarcom, and Siemens Myrio. PAGE Part Item RISK FACTORS Challenges our business model may reduce our revenues and operating margins. Our business model based upon customers agreeing pay fee license software developed and distributed . Under this commercial software model, software developers bear the costs converting original ideas into software products through investments research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from the distribution their products. believe the commercial software model has had substantial benefits for users software, allowing them rely our expertise and the expertise other software developers that have powerful incentives develop innovative software that useful, reliable, and compatible with other software and hardware. recent years, non-commercial software model has evolved that presents growing challenge the commercial software model. Under the non-commercial software model, open source software produced loosely associated groups unpaid programmers and made available for license end users without charge distributed firms nominal cost that earn revenue complementary services and products, without having bear the full costs research and development for the open source software. The most notable example open source software the Linux operating system. There wide variety other open source software available, such Open Office org and Eclipse. While believe our products provide customers with significant advantages security and productivity, and generally have lower total cost ownership than open source software, the popularization the non-commercial software model continues pose significant challenge our business model, including recent efforts proponents open source software convince governments worldwide mandate the use open source software their purchase and deployment software products. the extent open source software gains increasing market acceptance, sales our products may decline, may have reduce the prices charge for our products, and revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. face intense competition. continue experience intense competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors range size from Fortune companies small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized and open source community-based projects. While believe the breadth our businesses and product portfolio offers benefits our customers that are competitive advantage, our competitors that are focused narrower product line may more effective devoting technical, marketing, and financial resources compete with . addition, barriers entry our businesses generally are low. The Internet distribution channel and non-commercial software model described above have reduced barriers entry even further. Non-commercial software vendors are devoting considerable efforts developing software that mimics the features and functionality various our products. response competitive factors, are developing versions our products with basic functionality that are sold lower prices than the standard versions. See Part , Item this report for additional information about our competitors. These competitive pressures may result decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such for marketing and sales incentives, resulting lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. may not able protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement our patents third parties, declining legal protection for intellectual property. defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use software and intellectual property rights through variety techniques. Preventing unauthorized use infringement our rights difficult. Piracy our products represents loss revenue . While this adversely affects . revenue, the impact revenue from outside the United States more significant, particularly countries where laws are less protective intellectual property rights. Similarly, the absence harmonized patent laws makes more difficult ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Moreover, future legal changes could make this even more challenging. Throughout the world, actively educate consumers about the benefits licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and educate lawmakers about the advantages business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. However, continued educational and enforcement efforts may not affect revenue positively, and revenue could adversely affected reductions the legal protection for intellectual property rights for software developers compliance with additional legal obligations impacting the intellectual property rights software developers. Third parties may claim infringe their intellectual property rights. From time time receive notices from others claiming infringe their intellectual property rights. The number these claims may grow. Responding these claims may require enter into royalty and licensing agreements less favorable terms, require stop selling redesign affected products, pay damages satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. are required enter into such agreements take such actions, our operating margins may decline result. have made and expect PAGE Part Item continue making significant expenditures acquire the use technology and intellectual property rights, including via cross-licenses broad patent portfolios, part our strategy manage this risk. may not able protect our source code from copying there unauthorized disclosure source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, the most significant asset own. While license certain portions our source code for various software programs and operating systems number licensees, take significant measures protect the secrecy large portions our source code. unauthorized disclosure significant portion our source code occurs, could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss future trade secret protection could make easier for third parties compete with our products copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure source code could also increase certain risks described the next paragraph. Security vulnerabilities our products could lead reduced revenues liability claims. Maintaining the security computers and computer networks issue critical importance for and our customers. There are malicious hackers who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products. While this industry-wide phenomenon that affects computers across all platforms, affects our products particular because hackers tend focus their efforts the most popular operating systems and programs and expect them continue . devote significant resources addressing these critical issues. are focusing our efforts engineering even more secure products, enhancing security and reliability options and settings when deliver products, and providing guidance help our customers make the best use our products and services protect against computer viruses and other attacks their computing environment. addition, are working improve the deployment software updates address security vulnerabilities discovered after our products are released. are also investing mitigation technologies that help secure customers from attacks even when such software updates are not deployed. are also advising customers how help protect themselves from security threats through the use our online automated security tools, our published security guidance, and the deployment security software such firewalls, antivirus, and other security software. The cost these steps could adversely affect our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual perceived security vulnerabilities our products could lead some customers seek return products, reduce delay future purchases, use competitive products. Customers may also increase their expenditures protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption new technologies. Any these actions customers could adversely affect our revenue. devote significant resources improving the security design and engineering our software. Nevertheless, actual perceived vulnerabilities may lead claims against . While our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate limit our exposure such liability claims, there assurance these provisions will held effective under applicable laws and judicial decisions. are subject government regulatory activity that affects how design and market our products. Lawsuits brought the . Department Justice, states, and the District Columbia two separate actions were resolved through Consent Decree that took effect November and Final Judgment entered November . These proceedings imposed regulatory constraints our Windows operating system businesses, including limits certain contracting practices, required disclosure certain software program interfaces, limits Microsoft\x92 ability ensure the visibility certain Windows features new PCs, and required licensing certain communications protocols. While believe currently are full compliance with the Decree and Judgment, fail comply with them the future additional restrictions could imposed that would adversely affect our business. Moreover, there always remains the risk new legal action, either governments private claimants including with respect products that haven\x92 been scrutinized the past. March , the European Commission determined that must create new versions Windows that not include certain multimedia technologies, many which are required for certain Web sites, software applications, and other aspects Windows function properly, and must provide our competitors with specifications for how implement certain communications protocols supported Windows. Microsoft has appealed both determinations European courts. result the Commission decision, have incurred and will continue incur duplicative development costs (absent court decision reverse limit this aspect the ruling). The availability these alternative versions Windows the market also may cause confusion that harms our reputation, including among consumers and with third party software and web site developers who rely the functionality removed from these alternative versions. The Commission ruling obligates Microsoft make available specifications for certain Windows communications protocol technologies licensing terms that are closely regulated the Commission. The PAGE Part Item availability these licenses may enable competitors develop software products that better mimic the functionality Microsoft\x92 own products which could result reduction sales our products. Unless reversed limited appeal, the ruling the European Commission may cited precedent other proceedings that seek limit our ability continue improve Windows adding new functionality response consumer demand. The ruling also illustrates risk that competition authorities Europe elsewhere may authorize competitors distribute implementations Microsoft communications protocols source code form without proper contractual provisions protect our intellectual property. believe our integrated approach delivery product innovation benefits consumers and business. Current future government regulatory efforts may hinder our ability provide these benefits reducing the attractiveness our products and the revenues that come from them. Our online services are subject government regulation the Internet domestically and internationally areas such user privacy, data protection, and online content. The application these laws and regulations our business often unclear and sometimes may conflict. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs require changes business practices that result reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result penalties being imposed orders that cease conducting the noncompliant activity. Our business depends largely our ability attract and retain talented employees. Our business based successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers our industry extremely competitive. are limited our ability recruit internationally restrictive domestic immigration laws. are less successful our recruiting efforts, are unable retain key employees, our ability develop and deliver successful products and services may adversely affected. Delays product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development software products complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays new product releases significant problems creating new products, particularly any delays the Windows Vista operating system, could adversely affect our revenue. make significant investments new products and services that may not profitable. have made and will continue make significant investments research, development, and marketing for new products, services, and technologies, including Windows Vista, Office , MSN Search, SQL Server, Windows Server and Xbox . Investments new technology are inherently speculative. Commercial success depends many factors including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Significant revenue from new product and service investments may not achieved for number years, all. Moreover, new products and services may not profitable, and even they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not high the margins have experienced historically. Declines demand for software could occur. overall market demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines significantly, consumer corporate spending for such products declines, our revenue will adversely affected. addition, our revenue would unfavorably impacted customers reduce their purchases new software products upgrades existing products because new product offerings are not perceived providing significant new functionality other value prospective purchasers. are making significant investments the next release the Windows operating system (Windows Vista) and the next release the Microsoft Office System (Office ). these products are not perceived offering significant new functionality value prospective purchasers, our revenue and operating margins could adversely affected. have claims and lawsuits against that may result adverse outcomes. are subject variety claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes some all the claims pending against may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against that could adversely affect our ability conduct our business. While management currently believes that resolving all these matters, individually the aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, the litigation and other claims noted above are subject inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view these matters may change the future. There exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. may have additional tax liabilities. are subject income taxes both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. the PAGE Part Item ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Although believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based the results audit litigation, material effect our income tax provision, net income, cash flows the period periods for which that determination made could result. may risk having insufficient supplies certain Xbox components console inventory. Some components the upcoming Xbox are obtained from single supplier and others may subject industry- wide supply shortage. component delivery from sole-source supplier delayed becomes unavailable industry shortages occur, may unable obtain replacement supplies timely basis resulting reduced console and game sales. Components are ordered based forecasted console demand may experience component shortages for the Xbox . Similarly, our demand forecasts for the existing Xbox console are inaccurate and exceed actual demand, may have excess console inventory that may require record charges cost revenue for the excess inventory. Xbox consoles will assembled Asia; disruptions the supply chain may result console shortages that would affect our revenues and operating margins. our goodwill amortizable intangible assets become impaired may required record significant charge earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events changes circumstances indicate the carrying value may not recoverable. Goodwill required tested for impairment least annually. Factors that may considered change circumstances indicating that the carrying value our goodwill amortizable intangible assets may not recoverable include decline stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates our industry. may required record significant charge earnings our financial statements during the period which any impairment our goodwill amortizable intangible assets determined resulting impact our results operations. Changes accounting may affect our reported earnings and operating income. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects our business, such revenue recognition for software, accounting for financial instruments, and treatment goodwill amortizable intangible assets, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes these rules, their interpretation, changes our products business could significantly change our reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility those measures, without comparable underlying change cash flow from operations. See Note \x93Item . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 and \x93Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x96 Critical Accounting Policies\x94 this report. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. While hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our future net revenues. General economic and geo-political risks may affect our revenue and profitability. Softness corporate information technology spending other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries generally and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions may lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major PAGE Part Item earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return the investment make, that may experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. have limited insurance. maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks property loss. Because the unavailability high cost conventional insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with the risks discussed this report other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include: \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; and \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online services. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers August , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman the Board and Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment Lisa Brummel Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Microsoft Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft International . Scott Valerio Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer Kevin . Johnson Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer Michelle (Mich) Mathews Senior Vice President, Marketing Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Information Worker Business Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. PAGE Part Item . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity, and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Brummel was named Corporate Vice President, Human Resources April . Previous this position she had been Corporate Vice President the Home and Retail Division. She joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company Senior Vice President upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . Previous the acquisition, had served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Great Plains. joined Great Plains . . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President, President Microsoft International June . had been Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since March . Previous that, had been Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing since July . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . Valerio was named Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer May . has served Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller since April . Before joining Microsoft, . Valerio was the Vice President Corporate Controllership The Walt Disney Company from January April . Before joining Disney, . Valerio was the Chief Financial Officer Mindwave Software Inc. from May October . Prior going Mindwave, . Valerio spent years with PricewaterhouseCoopers. . Johnson was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services March . had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February . . Johnson had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Liddell was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer May . . Liddell served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer International Paper Company since March , and prior becoming Chief Financial Officer, held the positions Vice President, Finance and Controller. . Liddell held leadership positions International Paper and its New Zealand affiliate Carter Holt Harvey Limited for the ten years prior joining Microsoft. . Liddell served Chief Executive Officer Carter Holt Harvey Limited from and Chief Financial Officer from . . Mathews was named Senior Vice President, Marketing May . Before holding her current position, . Mathews had been Corporate Vice President, Marketing since August and Vice President Corporate Public Relations since . . Mathews joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Information Worker Business June . had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August . . Raikes had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business June . Previous assuming that role, was responsible for managing Developer and Platform Evangelism. . Rudder joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item , , , EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. believe have been successful our efforts recruit qualified employees, but cannot guarantee that will continue successful the future. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. believe that our relationship with our employees excellent. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with furnish the SEC. Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ITEM . PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated slightly more than acres owned land our corporate campus and approximately million square feet leased. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. May , the Redmond, Washington City Council approved our proposed development agreement, which establishes the framework under which can develop additional million square feet facilities our main campus. also own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS July , , announced settlement with IBM resolving claims asserted IBM that arose from the circumstances United States . Microsoft and findings fact that identified IBM having been impacted its business practices which the . . District Court ruled against , and claims related IBM\x92 and SmartSuite businesses. Under the agreement, paid IBM $ million and extended $ million credit for IBM\x92 internal deployment Microsoft software. IBM released all antitrust claims against based past conduct except for claims related its server business which IBM will not sue for least two years. See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding other legal proceedings which are involved. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low September , our Board Directors declared common stock dividend $ per share, which was paid November . That was the only dividend declared paid fiscal year . See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal year . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Maximum number shares ( approximate dollar value) shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , PAGE Part Item ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ $ Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Long-term obligations , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) The financial data presented reflects stock-based compensation expense except fiscal year , prescribed Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure and amendment FASB Statement . , reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation discussed Note . fiscal year had been restated, the operating income and net income would have been $ , million and $ , million. ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Fiscal year also includes the acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. ( ) Fiscal year includes the acquisition Navision , Rare Ltd. and Placeware, Inc. for total $ billion cash and $ million stock and other consideration. PAGE Part Item ITEM . MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (Notes). develop, manufacture, license, and support wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, PCs, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games, and peripherals. Online communication and information services are delivered through our MSN portals and channels around the world. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Home and Entertainment segment particularly subject seasonality its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Historically, approximately % % Home and Entertainment revenue has been generated the second fiscal quarter. believe the seasonality revenue likely continue the future. intend sustain the long-term growth our businesses through technological innovation, engineering excellence, and commitment delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary challenges help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems, including versions for new devices such Tablet PCs, Media Center PCs, Portable Media Centers, and mobile devices such Smartphones. are also increasing our focus emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software those markets. addition, develop innovative software applications and solutions enhance the productivity information workers, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain the growth our Server and Tools business amid competition from other vendors both proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 the most advanced, easiest deploy and manage and most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. take advantage new market opportunities, continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, such services for consumers, businesses and large enterprises that believe can contribute significantly our long-term growth. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. Delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative new products, creating opportunity for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, putting some our most significant legal cases behind , and improving our internal business processes. Our focus fiscal year building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, delivering compelling value propositions customers, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: \x95 Growth our anchor businesses through forthcoming innovations and new product launches and making inroads against software piracy. \x95 Expanding our innovation portfolio offering extensions our technologies targeted towards specific customer needs \x96 either new products higher-value versions existing products. \x95 Delivering software services through online consumer services and services for businesses that enable workers collaborate interactively. PAGE Part Item Worldwide macroeconomic factors have strong correlation business and consumer demand for our software, services, games and Internet service offerings. expect that general macroeconomic trends will remain stable experience slight improvement fiscal year compared fiscal year . Our optimism balanced recent data which revealed slight downward revisions when compared previous forecasts for Gross Domestic Product growth the ., United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan and Latin America. The leading indicators were also revised slightly lower for the major markets. Additionally, recent surveys chief information officers also reflect slight downward revisions expected corporate spend budgets and short-term purchase intent. open source software development and distribution evolves, continue seek differentiate our products from competitive products based open source software. believe that Microsoft\x92 share server unit operating systems held steady fiscal year , while Linux distributions rose slightly faster absolute basis. Summary ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , ( )% $ , % Our revenue growth for fiscal year was driven growth licensing Windows Server \x99 operating systems and other server applications, licensing Windows  Client operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other Information Worker products. The license revenue growth resulted from growth server hardware and shipments, fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, and overall improvements spending. The November launch the \x93Halo  \x94 Xbox game also contributed the overall revenue growth for the company. Based our preliminary estimates, worldwide shipments from all sources grew about % % and total server hardware shipments grew approximately % % during fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive , primarily due relative strengthening most foreign currencies, particularly the euro and Japanese yen, against the . dollar. Had the exchange rates from the previous year been effect fiscal year , translated international revenue growth earned local currencies would have been approximately $ million two percentage points lower for fiscal year . hedge portion our international currency exposures, thereby reducing our overall exposure. Fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates have greater impact non-OEM commercial and retail license business significant portion those product revenues are denominated foreign currencies. The vast majority OEM license revenue denominated . dollars. Partially offsetting revenue growth rates was $ billion decline earned revenue from Upgrade Advantage fiscal year . The Upgrade Advantage contract value reached its expiration dates the first quarter fiscal year . This revenue was recognized over fiscal year and fiscal year and the first quarter fiscal year when the contract period expired. Revenue growth fiscal year was primarily driven the growth licensing Windows Client operating systems through OEMs, Windows Server operating systems, Office and other server applications result growth and server hardware shipments. The worldwide shipment growth rate from all sources was estimated % and the Windows server shipment was estimated % fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive fiscal year due relative strengthening most foreign currencies versus the . dollar. This resulted approximately $ billion growth total revenue. Revenue growth fiscal year was driven primarily multi-year licensing that occurred before the Licensing transition date the first quarter fiscal year . The fiscal year revenue growth also reflected $ million % increase associated with OEM licensing Windows operating systems and $ million % increase revenue from Xbox video game consoles. For fiscal year , the operating income increase was driven decline stock-based compensation expense; increased revenue Server and Tools, Client and Information Worker, which have higher gross margins compared other segments; and reduction legal costs associated with major litigation. addition, strong sales Halo reduced the overall operating loss for the Home and Entertainment segment for fiscal year . The $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense was partially offset increased operating expenses $ million related increased salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. General and administrative expenses related major litigation declined fiscal year due the $ billion charges related the PAGE Part Item settlement Sun Microsystems litigation and the fine imposed the European Commission fiscal year . This effect was partially offset legal expenses $ billion related settlements with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs resolve antitrust issues and other matters. fiscal year , the operating income decline was caused primarily $ billion legal charges and $ billion stock-based compensation expense related our employee stock option transfer program, mainly offset increase revenue. fiscal year , the growth operating income reflected increase revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses related employee and related costs associated with headcount and increased legal settlement expenses, primarily the Time Warner settlement charge $ million. fiscal year , implemented changes employee compensation whereby employees are granted stock awards rather than stock options. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year which employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher JPMorgan. The unvested options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. total million the million eligible options were transferred, which resulted additional stock-based compensation expense $ billion the second quarter fiscal year . result these changes, expect stock-based compensation expense continue decrease for least the next three fiscal years. The following table shows total stock-based compensation expense segment and income statement classification for fiscal years , and . ( millions) Increase/ (Decrease) Increase/ (Decrease) Client $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Server and Tools , , ( , ) Information Worker ( ) Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) MSN ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) Corporate , ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Cost revenue ( ) Research and development , , , , ( , ) Sales and marketing , , ( ) General and administrative ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) fiscal year , expect revenue grow higher rate than fiscal year , mainly due the launches new products. expect higher revenue growth fiscal year compared fiscal year Home and Entertainment primarily driven the launch Xbox . estimate worldwide shipments will grow between % % and worldwide server unit shipments will grow between % % fiscal year compared fiscal year . not expect benefit from year-over-year foreign currency exchange rates fiscal year . expect our operating income growth rate fiscal year exceed our revenue growth rate. Operating income expected reflect lower operating expenses due lower costs for legal settlements than incurred fiscal year and reduction stock-based compensation expense. The operating loss for Home and Entertainment expected increase fiscal year driven the launch and investments Xbox . SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Our seven segments are Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the PAGE Part Item segments. The segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements presented basis consistent with the Company\x92 internal management reporting, accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate level expenses have been excluded from our segment operating results and are analyzed separately. Fiscal years and amounts have been restated for certain internal reorganizations and conform the current period presentation including reclassifying certain legal settlements from business segments corporate-level expense. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Client includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems. Client revenue growth correlated with the growth corporate and consumer purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The operating results for all periods presented have been restated reflect the reorganization the Windows Security group from Server and Tools Client. Client revenue increased fiscal year driven % growth OEM license units and $ million % growth OEM revenue from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. This channel-mix shift reflects our customers\x92 continued preference for upgrading their operating systems through the OEM channel when they replace their PCs versus the purchase multi-year licensing agreement. The mix OEM Windows operating systems licensed with premium edition operating systems percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed during the year remained flat % total OEM Windows operating systems compared the previous year. Revenue earned from Upgrade Advantage declined $ million fiscal year contributing the decrease commercial and retail licensing revenue. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected the mix premium versions operating systems licensed during the year, changes the geographical mix, the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders, and previous changes deferral rates and product lives for undelivered elements unearned revenue. Client revenue increase fiscal year was driven % growth OEM licenses and % growth OEM revenue increased consumer unit shipments the first half the fiscal year and growth business unit shipments the second half fiscal year . Client operating income increased fiscal year primarily due increase OEM revenue and decrease stock-based compensation expense. These factors were partially offset increase sales and marketing expenses associated with \x93Start Something,\x94 globally launched advertising campaign, marketing for security initiatives, and increase salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. The additional headcount for research and development was primarily devoted the continued development the Windows Client next-generation operating system. The operating income for fiscal year has been restated for reclassification legal settlement charges totaling $ million from Client corporate expenses conform the current year presentation. Client operating income increased for fiscal year compared fiscal year mainly due growth revenue, partially offset increased operating expenses primarily related stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . anticipate that worldwide shipments will grow approximately % % fiscal year , continuing influence our growth Client revenue. addition, estimate that increasing shipments laptops percentage total systems will continue positively influence Client revenue growth due shorter replacement cycles for laptops. The time between operating system releases may affect our ability close some multi-year licensing agreements. expect growth rates emerging markets continue outpace mature market growth rates. Piracy continues challenge both emerging and mature markets. intend focus growing OEM licenses faster than the overall market reducing piracy, particularly the mature markets, through initiatives such Windows Genuine Advantage. Client commercial and retail licensing revenues are expected continue lag behind overall Client revenue growth, but expect see improvements these channels fiscal year compared fiscal year . anticipate modest increase our premium product mix fiscal year , although PAGE Part Item anticipate shipments the premium-priced Media Center Edition will grow percentage the total operating system shipments. Major investments fiscal year will focus development Windows Vista, the next-generation operating system, and will include marketing initiatives such the global \x93Start Something\x94 campaign. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server  , Exchange Server, and other server products. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server and Tools concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content, and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. The segment uses multiple channels for licensing including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. The licenses are sold both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses depending upon the needs different customers. Server and Tools uses product innovation and partnerships with information technology professionals drive the adoption and sales growth its products. Server and Tools growth driven performance the overall market for information technology \x96 both hardware and software. The operating results for previous years have been restated for the reorganization the Windows Security group from Server and Tools Client and the reorganization Professional product support services from Information Worker Server and Tools. Server and Tools revenue growth fiscal year was mainly driven growth Server and Server application revenue, including CAL revenue, which grew $ billion % fiscal year reflecting broad adoption Windows Server System \x99 products, including Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and Management Servers. estimate that overall server hardware shipments grew % % during fiscal year and that Windows-based server shipments grew comparable rate for the same period. Consulting and Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % compared the previous year, primarily due increased consultant utilization and new Premier customers. Foreign currency exchange rate changes accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points total Server and Tools revenue growth, which was offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage revenue earned. fiscal year , Server and Server applications revenue, including CAL revenue, grew $ billion %. Foreign currency exchange rates contributed approximately $ million five percentage points Server and Tools revenue growth fiscal year compared fiscal year . Consulting and Premier product support services revenue increased $ million % compared fiscal year due increased customer penetration from new product offerings. Server and Tools operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due increase revenue and decrease stock-based compensation expense. This was partially offset increase sales and marketing costs and headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits. Operating income for the previous year has been restated for reclassification $ billion legal settlements from Server and Tools corporate expenses conform the current year presentation. Server and Tools operating income for fiscal year increased slightly due the revenue increase offset increased stock-based compensation charges, including $ million related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . expect worldwide server hardware shipments grow % % fiscal year . However, face strong competition from Linux-based, Unix, and other server operating systems. anticipate little year-over-year foreign currency exchange rate impacts fiscal year . also expect Server and Tools operating expenses increase during fiscal year due expected investment headcount and new marketing initiatives and upcoming product releases, including SQL Server and Visual Studio . PAGE Part Item Information Worker ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Information Worker consists the Microsoft Office System programs, servers, services, and solutions designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. Information Worker includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio  , SharePoint  Portal Server CALs, and other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting  and OneNote  . Most revenue from this segment comes from licensing our Office System products. Revenue growth depends the ability add value the core Office product set and expand our product offerings other information worker areas such document lifecycle management, collaboration, and business intelligence. Beginning fiscal year , the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization, which was historically part Information Worker, was -aligned Microsoft Business Solutions. result this change, Information Worker results have been restated reflect the reclassification the SMS& organization Microsoft Business Solutions. The results for previous periods have also been restated due the reclassification Professional product support services from Information Worker into Server and Tools. Information Worker revenue increased fiscal year primarily due % $ million increase volume licensing, retail packaged product, and pre-installed versions Office Japan, % $ million increase OEM revenue, and the impact foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset reduced Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Changes foreign currency exchange rates accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points the revenue growth for fiscal year compared the previous fiscal year, offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Revenue growth for fiscal year from volume licensing, retail packaged product and pre-installed versions Office Japan was % aggregate. This increase was driven recognition unearned revenue primarily from large increase multi-year licenses signed previous the transition our Licensing programs and approximately $ million related the launch Office . OEM licensing revenue grew % $ million. Foreign currency exchange rates provided approximately $ million % total Information Worker revenue growth. Information Worker operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due the revenue growth and decrease stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses were also impacted reduction marketing campaign costs from the previous period associated with the launch Office . This decline was offset increase headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits. Information Worker operating income fiscal year increased from the previous year primarily due growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, primarily related $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year and higher sales and marketing expenses. The revenue growth rate for Information Worker expected higher fiscal year than fiscal year . expect sustained momentum our OEM and multi-year licensing offerings and increased purchasing Office System enterprises complete their product evaluations. expect see slowing revenue from packaged product late the year approach the next version launch. anticipate little year-over-year foreign currency exchange rate benefit fiscal year . Microsoft Business Solutions ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) ( )% $ ( ) % Microsoft Business Solutions provides integrated and adaptable business management software solutions optimized for small and mid-sized businesses, large organizations and divisions global enterprises. Microsoft Business Solutions products are developed deliver affordable and rich functionality through adaptable software platform PAGE Part Item that works like and with other Microsoft technologies. The main products consist line business solutions, customer relationship management software, retail solutions, and related services. Revenue derived from software and services sales, with software sales representing significant amount total revenue. Software revenues include both new software licenses and enhancement plans, which provide customers with future software upgrades over the period the plan. Our solutions are delivered through worldwide network channel partners that provide specialized services and local support tailored customer needs. The market for Microsoft Business Solutions highly competitive, with few strong players the enterprise segment while the mid-market segment more fragmented. Microsoft Business Solutions now includes the SMS& organization, which previously had been included Information Worker. SMS& supports small and mid-market customers for Microsoft including Microsoft Business Solutions. Results have been restated reflect the reclassification SMS& for all periods presented. Also result the reorganization, the Microsoft Partner Program became component Microsoft Business Solutions. The increase Microsoft Business Solutions revenue fiscal year was mainly due % revenue growth software partially offset % decline services revenue, which resulted from encouraging our partners provide more these types services. The software revenue increase was driven % growth license revenue and % growth enhancement revenue compared the previous year, and attributed growth our line business solutions and customer relationship management solutions, and increased Microsoft Partner Program subscriptions. The revenue increase fiscal year was primarily attributable continued growth licensing Navision and Axapta line business solutions, new sales Microsoft CRM, and Microsoft Partner Program subscriptions. Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss declined fiscal year primarily due decline stock-based compensation expense, increase product revenue, and decline acquisition intangibles amortization. The reduction operating loss was partially offset net increase sales and marketing expense driven incremental headcount and marketing costs the SMS& organization. addition, there has been increase marketing and product development investments our portfolio business solutions. The operating loss for fiscal year increased from fiscal year due increase stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year , partially offset increase revenue and lower operating expenses including $ million lower intangibles amortization costs. Microsoft Business Solutions expects continued revenue growth through its portfolio business solutions and related product releases, including newer applications such Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting and Microsoft CRM. Continued investment the next generation solutions, broader geographical coverage, and plans for facilitating our partners provide customized vertical solutions should result improved business performance for Microsoft Business Solutions fiscal year . MSN ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ % $ % MSN includes personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN also provides variety online paid services addition MSN Internet Access and MSN Premium Web Services. Revenue derived primarily from advertisers MSN, from consumers and partners through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, and from subscribers MSN Narrowband Internet Access. fiscal year , launched new version our MSN Search engine, which based our own technology. This change will help provide the ability innovate more quickly and the opportunity develop long-term competitive advantage search. addition the launch MSN Search, introduced many new products and product enhancements fiscal year , including new version the MSN home page which provides richer user experience, quicker load times, higher levels end user customization, and fewer advertisements and links. MSN launched the clarity advertising program fiscal year , which removed paid advertising from inclusion search results and resulted reduced number advertisements that are returned with search results. fiscal year , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % primarily result industry and market growth, and continued growth MSN display advertising revenue, tempered the search clarity PAGE Part Item advertising program and the impact the home page redesign. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet Access increased $ million % fiscal year result growth the number MSN Premium subscribers through our carrier partnerships. Offsetting the overall revenue growth was decline $ million % Internet Access revenue, driven the continued migration Internet Access subscribers broadband other competitively priced Internet service providers. the end the current fiscal year, MSN had million internet access subscribers and million total subscribers compared million and million the end the previous year. addition, MSN has over million unique users monthly, over million active Hotmail accounts, and over million active Messenger accounts. fiscal year , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % result growth paid search and growth the overall Internet advertising market. This increase was partially offset decline $ million % Internet Access revenue. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet Access increased $ million. fiscal year , MSN operating income increased mainly due decrease stock-based compensation expense, reduced online operations and bandwidth costs associated with the Internet Access business the number subscribers declines, and increased advertising and subscription revenue. The operating income increase was partially offset increase headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits, and $ million tax benefit recorded the first quarter fiscal year . MSN reached profitability the first quarter fiscal year and was profitable for fiscal year . The improvement profitability fiscal year was primarily driven increase revenue, decline customer acquisition costs and other expenses related the Internet Access business, efficiency gains the operations the advertising and subscription businesses, and $ million refund previous year taxes, partially offset increase stock-based compensation expense. MSN expects increased growth advertising revenue benefits from improvements its advertising platform and search engine and continued increases Internet spending. expect revenue from narrowband Internet Access continue decline fiscal year . Profitability may decline fiscal year investments are made the development new applications and services, the search and search monetization platform, and growth the field sales force. MSN may from time time continue make investments improving the user experience and some cases, the number advertisements delivered either via our search tools via our Internet portals may reduced improve the overall user experience thereby helping sustain and grow our user base. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint Mobile and Embedded Devices have been moved MSN. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN reported results. Mobile and Embedded Devices ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) % $ ( ) % Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile \x99 software, Windows Embedded operating systems, MapPoint  , and Windows Automotive. These products extend the advantages the Windows platform mobile devices such PDAs, phones, and wide range embedded devices. The business also responsible for managing sales and customer relationships for Microsoft overall with device manufacturers and communication sector customers. The communication sector includes network service providers (such wireless, wireline and cable operators), and media and entertainment companies. The market for products these segments intensely competitive. Competitive alternatives vary based product lines and include product offerings from commercial and non-commercial mobile operating system providers, and proprietary software developed OEMs and mobile operators. Short product lifecycles product lines such Windows Mobile software may impact our continuing revenue streams. Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue growth for fiscal year was primarily due unit volume increases all major product lines, especially Windows Mobile software sales and Windows Embedded operating systems. Increased revenue for Windows Mobile software was primarily driven increased market demand for connected mobile devices such phone-enabled PDAs and Smartphones, and strong growth volume shipments for PAGE Part Item standalone PDAs. The increase Windows Embedded revenue was due our operating system being included new product designs for both new and existing customers. Mobile and Embedded Devices also benefited from the increased demand for -line mapping and the introduction new MapPoint finished goods products. This new functionality resulted increased unit sales for Mobile, Embedded, and MapPoint product categories. fiscal year , revenue for Windows Mobile software increased $ million %, revenue for Windows Embedded operating systems increased $ million % and revenue for MapPoint and Windows Automotive increased $ million %. Mobile and Embedded Devices realized positive increases customer satisfaction ratings from both mobile operator partners and the developer community. fiscal year , Mobile and Embedded Devices released Windows Mobile which the latest version our mobile operating software. Unit volume increases drove revenue growth for fiscal year over fiscal year all major product lines. The growth was primarily due the increased number OEMs and mobile operators shipping Windows Mobile software for Smartphones, increases market share for our Pocket and embedded products and increased usage existing customers our MapPoint Web Service. Mobile and Embedded Devices operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due decrease stock-based compensation expense. The growth revenue and reduction sales and marketing expense also contributed improved operating results this period compared the previous year. This improvement has been partially offset increased salary and benefit costs from increased hiring and increased investment research and development. The Mobile and Embedded Devices operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due growth revenue and lower marketing expenses, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . Mobile and Embedded Devices committed continuing product innovation meet the growing needs our customers and partners. will continue invest research and development and sales and marketing develop and market evolving software solutions. fiscal year expect bring added functionality the Windows Mobile platform through the Windows Mobile Messaging and Security Feature Pack and the Exchange Server Service Pack . This solution enables business users easily stay connected their Microsoft Office Outlook Mobile information and helps businesses better protect device data. expect sales for Mobile and Embedded Devices continue grow fiscal year . The growth anticipated driven overall increase customer demand for connectivity, and increase the number new devices being offered OEMs and mobile operators incorporating Windows Mobile software and Windows Embedded operating systems. Growth also anticipated due strong focus increasing segment share the connected device space working with our partners bring market strong portfolio Smartphone and mobile computing devices. addition, are focused bringing market applications and services the Windows Mobile platform that fulfill our customers desire for personalized communication devices. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint Mobile and Embedded Devices have been moved MSN. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN reported results. Home and Entertainment ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% $ ( ) % Home and Entertainment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products for the interactive television industry. The success video game consoles determined console functionality, the portfolio video game content for the console, and the market share the console. Revenue and unit volumes have grown quickly since entered the market and have established ourselves one the market leaders. believe our competitive position and revenue bolstered our increasing software game attach rates, which provides higher margins offset the declining prices consoles sold. Xbox consoles have negative gross margins. Home and Entertainment revenue increased fiscal year primarily due significant new product launches, which resulted $ million % increase Xbox revenue. the second quarter fiscal year , PAGE Part Item introduced Halo , which generated over $ million revenue the fiscal year. Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games, and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software sales. fiscal year , Xbox revenue increased $ million % with $ million related higher Xbox software volumes and $ million due higher Xbox console volumes, partially offset $ million decline related price reductions Xbox consoles and software. Overall, Xbox console volumes sales increased % fiscal year compared fiscal year . Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software and gaming devices sales, partially offset the new release Mac Office. Home and Entertainment operating loss fiscal year decreased primarily due increase high margin Xbox software sales, lower Xbox console unit costs, the lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment recorded fiscal year , and decrease stock-based compensation expense. The decrease was partially offset increase costs associated with Xbox console development and launch efforts associated with . The increase operating loss fiscal year was primarily due $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year , increased sales negative margin consoles, and costs associated with Xbox console development efforts, partially offset increased Xbox and Mac Office software sales. The operating loss increase from fiscal year also included lower- -cost- -market adjustment approximately $ million related Xbox console inventory. expect operating expenses continue increase near the launch Xbox . result launch-related activities, expect our operating loss increase fiscal year . fiscal year , expect Xbox console unit volumes and revenue increase from fiscal year due launch the Xbox . fiscal year expect games revenue increase from fiscal year driven more new game titles. Corporate-Level Expenses ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Corporate-level Expenses $ , $ , % $ , ( )% Certain corporate-level expenses are not allocated our segments. Those expenses primarily include corporate operations related broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, certain research and development and other costs, and all litigation settlements and accrued legal contingencies. fiscal year , corporate-level expenses decreased primarily result reduction stock-based compensation expense and decreased corporate legal costs. Fiscal year legal costs were $ billion compared $ billion fiscal year . The legal costs both years were primarily related antitrust and competition law claims brought competitors, class actions behalf end users, and government regulatory bodies outside the United States. fiscal year , corporate-level expenses increased primarily due legal costs including $ billion charge for settlement with the Sun Microsystems, Inc., and the fine \x80 million ($ million) imposed the European Commission. addition, stock-based compensation increased $ million compared fiscal year . Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Cost revenue $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ( )ppt % ( )ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. PAGE Part Item addition decrease the cost revenue fiscal year due lower stock-based compensation expense, the cost revenue decreased due $ million reduction costs primarily associated with provisioning the MSN Internet Access business subscriptions declined and $ million reduction other product costs mainly due Xbox consoles cost efficiency Home and Entertainment, partially offset increased costs product support and consulting services costs. The increase fiscal year was primarily due increased product support and consulting services costs $ million, $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program, and lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment the fourth quarter fiscal year approximately $ million related the Xbox console, partially offset $ million decrease MSN online operations costs. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Research and development $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ppt % ( )ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Our research and development expenses decreased fiscal year due lower stock-based compensation expense. This expense decline was partially offset increase headcount-related costs associated with incremental hiring and product development costs associated with upcoming products, primarily the Xbox console and related games, SQL Server , Windows Vista, and product development Mobile and Embedded devices. The increase fiscal year was primarily due $ billion stock-based compensation expenses related the option transfer program and other headcount-related payroll and other employee costs associated with % increase research and development headcount from fiscal year . Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Sales and marketing $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % ( )ppt % ( )ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. For fiscal year , sales and marketing expense increased slightly due $ million higher headcount-related costs from hiring and salary increases; higher sales and marketing costs driven product planning, reseller marketing, and advertising campaign costs mainly related launch the \x93Start Something\x94 campaign; launch Halo ; and launch arrangements for Xbox . The increase was offset mainly reductions stock-based compensation expense. Sales and marketing costs increased fiscal year due $ million stock-based compensation expense related the option transfer program and other headcount-related costs related % increase sales and marketing headcount. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change General and administrative $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ppt % ( )ppt PAGE Part Item General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, and other administrative headcount; and legal costs and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses decreased fiscal year due lower legal costs and stock-based compensation expense, partially offset increase other headcount-related costs from new and existing employees $ million. fiscal year , our legal expenses were driven charges $ billion, nearly all which were for settlements certain antitrust claims with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs, and increases contingency reserves for anti-trust related claims. General and administrative costs increased fiscal year primarily due legal expenses including $ billion charges related the Sun Microsystems settlement, $ million fine imposed the European Commission, and other legal costs approximately $ million; $ million stock-based compensation expense related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year ; and other headcount-related costs. Investment Income The components investment income and other each full fiscal year are follows: ( millions) Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Dividends and interest income declined $ million fiscal year due the combination greater allocation funds lower yielding, more liquid asset classes preparation for the $ billion special dividend paid December , and lower portfolio balance following payment the special dividend. Net gains investments declined $ million fiscal year due primarily greater sales investments the previous fiscal year preparation for the special dividend paid December , . Net gains investments also include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ million fiscal year . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. Derivative instruments are used manage exposures interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates and facilitate portfolio diversification. Net derivative losses fiscal year were primarily related losses equity derivatives, interest rate derivatives, and foreign currency contracts. During fiscal year , losses related equity derivatives used economically hedge against decline equity prices were $ million and losses related interest rate derivatives were $ million. These losses were offset the combination realized gains sales securities and unrealized gains related increases the market value the underlying assets included component other comprehensive income. Net losses related foreign currency contracts were $ million, related part hedging anticipated foreign currency revenues while the . dollar generally declined against most currencies during the current fiscal year, and economically hedging foreign currency based investment exposures. Losses related hedging foreign currency-based investment exposures were offset unrealized gains the underlying assets. Net gains derivatives also included gains related commodity positions used provide portfolio diversification. Gains commodity positions were $ million during fiscal year . fiscal year , dividends and interest income decreased $ million mainly due lower dividend income resulting from the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares Comcast during fiscal year and declining interest rates, partly offset larger investment portfolio. Net gains investments include PAGE Part Item other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ billion fiscal year and higher net realized gains sales fiscal year moved more liquid investment asset classes. Net realized gains sales were $ billion fiscal year and $ billion fiscal year . The decline impairments was due improved market conditions. Derivative losses decreased $ million $ million fiscal year compared fiscal year primarily due the combined effects interest rate movements interest rate sensitive instruments and equity market price movements relative positions used hedge the fair value certain equity securities. Net losses equity investees and other for the previous periods were reclassified into investment income and other conform the current period presentation. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for the full fiscal year was % compared with % for fiscal year . The decreased rate for the full year resulted primarily from the reversal $ million previously accrued taxes upon settling Internal Revenue Service examination for fiscal years and recording tax benefit $ million generated the decision repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings under temporary incentive provided the American Jobs Creation Act . The effective tax rate for fiscal year was %. The fiscal year rate reflected benefit the second quarter $ million which resulted from the reversal previously accrued taxes that were related previous unfavorable Tax Court ruling, portions which were reversed the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals. Financial Condition Cash and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , compared $ billion June , . The decline primarily attributable the special dividend $ per share, $ billion, paid December , , and common stock repurchases million shares for $ billion during . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , compared $ billion June , . The investment portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency denominated positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. result the special dividend and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected impact our future ability operate pay dividends given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue attributable volume licensing programs, undelivered elements software licensing arrangements, and certain other services. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Other unearned revenue includes Services, Platform, Microsoft Business Solutions, and advertising and subscription services where have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Unearned revenue June , increased $ million from June , reflecting current period billings outpacing the recognition deferrals from multi-year licensing arrangements $ million and $ million increase primarily unearned revenue for services, MSN advertising and subscriptions, Xbox Live, platform, and Microsoft Business Solutions, partially offset $ million decline revenue deferred for undelivered elements. PAGE Part Item The following table outlines the expected recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , Thereafter , Unearned revenue $ , Cash Flows Cash flow from operations for fiscal year increased % $ billion due primarily increase cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth combined with % increase unearned revenue. Cash payments fiscal year resulting from significant legal settlements were approximately $ billion lower than the previous year, adding the overall increase operating cash flow. Partially offsetting these factors were increased payments employees resulting from % increase full-time employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , driven $ billion cash dividends paid fiscal year compared $ billion paid fiscal year . The increase was also partially driven $ billion cash used for common stock repurchases, increase $ billion cash used for share repurchases compared the previous year, reflecting million shares repurchased fiscal year , increase million shares compared the previous year. Net cash from investing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year , primarily due $ billion increase investment maturities that occurred fund cash dividends paid fiscal year , partially offset $ billion decrease cash from combined investment purchase and sale activity. Cash flow from operations for fiscal year decreased $ billion $ billion. The decrease primarily reflects the combined cash outflows $ billion related the Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven the rise revenue billings. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from the previous year. The decrease reflects that did not repurchase common stock the fourth quarter fiscal year combined with $ million increase primarily from stock issuances related employee stock options exercises, partially offset $ million increase cash dividends paid. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year . Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year . The increase primarily reflects the rise cash receipts from customers driven the increase revenue billings and maintenance relatively stable accounts receivable levels. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ million from the previous year. The increase reflects cash dividend payment $ million and increase $ million common stock repurchased, offsetting $ million received from common stock issued. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year , due stronger portfolio performance sold and matured investments. have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling, $ million, $ million and $ million fiscal year , and , respectively. have issued residual value guarantees connection with various operating leases. These guarantees provide that not purchase the leased property from the PAGE Part Item lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. fiscal year , our Board Directors approved $ per share cash dividends, with $ paid June , . quarterly dividend $ per share ( approximately $ million) was approved our Board Directors June , paid shareholders record August , September , . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without previous notice. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change stockholders\x92 equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion our common stock under this plan. believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements, quarterly dividends and planned share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements June , , had guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company. The total amount these guarantees was approximately $ million. Effective December , , the guarantees were terminated. provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, interpreted FASB Interpretation . (FIN) . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period Fiscal Years - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( ) \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ , PAGE Part Item ( ) have excluded the $ billion contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred the third paragraph Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Purchase commitments represent obligations under agreements which are not unilaterally cancelable , are legally enforceable, and specify fixed minimum amounts quantities goods services fixed minimum prices. generally require purchase orders for vendor and third-party spending. The amount presented above purchase commitments includes analysis all known contracts exceeding $ million the aggregate and all known open purchase orders. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded unearned revenue $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above these will not settled cash. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS November , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Inventory Costs , which clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material. SFAS . will effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June , . not believe the adoption SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , Exchanges Nonmonetary Assets , which eliminates the exception for nonmonetary exchanges similar productive assets and replaces with general exception for exchanges nonmonetary assets that not have commercial substance. SFAS . will effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring fiscal periods beginning after June , . not believe the adoption SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment , which establishes standards for transactions which entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods services. This standard requires issuer measure the cost employee services received exchange for award equity instruments based the grant-date fair value the award. This eliminates the exception account for such awards using the intrinsic method previously allowable under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . . March , the SEC released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Share-Based Payment, which expresses views the SEC Staff about the application SFAS . ( ). April the SEC issued rule that SFAS . ( ) will effective for annual reporting periods beginning after June , . previously adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , July , and restated previous periods that time for all awards granted employees after July , . Accordingly believe SFAS . ( ) will not have material impact our financial statements; however, continue assess the potential impact that the adoption SFAS . ( ) will have the classification tax deductions for stock-based compensation our statements cash flows. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, accounting for income taxes, and accounting for stock-based compensation. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. Customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the PAGE Part Item ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and SEC SAB , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. PAGE Part Item , account for stock-based compensation accordance with the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value stock-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term stock options, the expected volatility our stock and expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount stock-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could materially impacted. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, fixed income, equity and commodity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations and financial position. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use options hedge our price risk certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. use value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert maturity value over time. VAR calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over specified period time for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates then applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The 250th worst performance (out , ) represents the VAR over specified period time the percentile confidence level. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike, exchange for the premium received for the sold call. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities previous periods. The VAR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the specified holding period used the VAR analysis. VAR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, equity and commodity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VAR. Given the reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. PAGE Part Item Management began using -day VAR for internal risk measurement purposes effective for the quarter-ended March , . The effect changing from -day VAR -day VAR was not material and there have been modifications the assumptions parameters within the model. The following table sets forth the -day VAR for substantially all our positions. ( millions) Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates Equity prices Commodity prices \x96 \x96 The total -day VAR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. PAGE Part Item ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Investment income and other , , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings (deficit), including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , , ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments ( , ) ( ) Stock option income tax benefits , , Deferred income taxes ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( , ) Other current assets ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) Other current liabilities , Other long-term liabilities , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Other \x96 \x96 ( ) Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( , ) ( ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( , ) ( ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Net cash from investing ( , ) ( , ) , Net change cash and equivalents , , ( , ) Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock option income tax benefits/(deficiencies) , ( ) Other, net \x96 ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings (deficit) Balance, beginning period , , , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investments gains/(losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period , , ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercise significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these arrangements, generally allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped, with portion the revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (currently named Software Assurance and, previously named Upgrade Advantage). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. PAGE Part Item Revenue related our Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Revenue related games published recognized when those games have been delivered retailers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when manufactured for the game publishers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Revenue for fixed price services arrangements recognized based percentage completion. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion fiscal year , $ million fiscal year , and $ million fiscal year . INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include both debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that are permitted sell -pledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. PAGE Part Item use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, equities price, interest rate and credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain loss recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss recognized earnings. For options designated either fair-value cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges for accounting purposes are recognized earnings. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments under SFAS . . Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies and manage other foreign currency exposures. Equities Price Risk. Equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. determine the security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging evaluating market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Certain options, futures and swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are also used manage equity exposures. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and future contracts and over-the-counter swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , hedge interest rate risk. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are used manage exposures credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. Announced (TBAs) forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets are not taken the earliest available delivery date. All derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments are recorded fair value, with changes value recognized earnings during the period change. PAGE Part Item ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. GOODWILL Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis July , and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. impairment goodwill has been identified during any the periods presented. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain previous year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation, including the reclassification auction rate securities (ARS) short-term investments instead cash and equivalents accordance with guidance issued the Securities and Exchange Commission and reclassification non-current tax contingencies from non-current deferred taxes other non-current liabilities. reclassified $ billion and $ billion investments ARS June , and , respectively, that were previously included cash and equivalents short-term investments. have included purchases and sales ARS our statements cash flows component investing activities. conform our current year presentation have also reclassified $ billion our fiscal year balance sheet from net long-term deferred income taxes other long-term liabilities, with conforming reclassifications the statement cash flows. These reclassifications had impact our results operations changes stockholders\x92 equity, cash flows. addition, net losses equity investees and other for previous periods were reclassified investment income and other conform the current period presentation. PAGE Part Item NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Other \x96 Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Business Solutions maintenance and enhancement billings, Xbox Live and other billings that are accounted for subscriptions, and other agreements where Microsoft committed the delivery future enhancements, products, services, including the platform. The components unearned revenue are follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other , Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE INVESTMENTS The components investments are follows: ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash and securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 \x96 , , , \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash and securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , \x96 , \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Other \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. the unrealized losses $ million PAGE Part Item June , , $ million exceeded twelve months. June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. the unrealized losses $ million June , , $ million exceeded twelve months. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairment based our evaluation available evidence June , . Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. The maturities debt securities June , were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Estimated fair value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , Debt securities include fixed maturity securities. NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME AND OTHER The components investment income and other are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments include other-than-temporary impairments $ billion fiscal year , $ million fiscal year , and $ million fiscal year . Realized gains and (losses) from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year , $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year , and $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year . NOTE DERIVATIVES For derivative instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS . , did not have significant impact earnings for fiscal years , , and . During fiscal year , $ million losses fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the PAGE Part Item assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and derivative gains losses were reclassified investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. significant fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal years , , and . NOTE INVENTORIES ( millions) June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ recorded lower cost market adjustments totaling approximately $ million fiscal year . NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) June Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment Property and equipment, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five fifteen years, leasehold improvements range from two years ten years \x96 representing the applicable lease terms plus reasonably assured extensions, computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million, the majority which related computer equipment. PAGE Part Item NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment, are follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Divestitures Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Divestitures Balance June , Client $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 $ Server and Tools \x96 \x96 \x96 Information Worker ( ) \x96 \x96 Microsoft Business Solutions , ( ) , \x96 , MSN \x96 \x96 \x96 Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 \x96 \x96 Home and Entertainment ( ) \x96 \x96 ( ) Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , test goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter each fiscal year the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . Our annual testing resulted impairment charges goodwill fiscal years and . event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value, goodwill will evaluated for impairment between annual tests. During fiscal years and , had material acquisitions. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components finite-lived intangible assets are follows: ( millions) June Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ PAGE Part Item During fiscal year , recorded additions intangible assets $ million, which $ million was related comprehensive intellectual property license that received conjunction with the settlement InterTrust . Microsoft . During fiscal year , recorded additions finite-lived intangible assets approximately $ million. other material intangibles were acquired fiscal year . estimate that have significant residual value related our finite-lived intangible assets. The components finite-lived intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount Weighted average life Amount Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Customer-related years years Marketing-related \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ $ Acquired finite-lived intangibles are generally amortized straight-line basis over weighted average periods. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal year and $ million for fiscal year . The estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ Total $ NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . Federal $ , $ , $ , . State and Local International , Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( , ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item . and international components income before income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes are follows: Year Ended June Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : IRS examination settlement \x96 \x96 ( )% Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Extraterritorial income exclusion ( )% ( )% ( )% Other reconciling items \x96 % % Effective rate % % % The other reconciling items include $ million repatriation tax benefit. The other reconciling items include the $ million benefit from the resolution the issue remanded the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals and the impact the $ million non-deductible European Commission fine. The components the deferred tax assets and liabilities are follows: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Unearned revenue $ , $ Impaired investments , Stock-based compensation expense , , Other revenue items Other expense items , , Other \x96 Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( , ) $ ( , ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , PAGE Part Item Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ billion our undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal through earnings, because these earnings are intended permanently reinvested operations outside the United States. The American Jobs Creation Act (the \x93Act\x94) was enacted October . The Act creates temporary incentive for . corporations repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings providing elective % dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The deduction subject number limitations and requirements, including adoption specific domestic reinvestment plan for the repatriated funds. Based our current understanding the Act and subsequent guidance published the . Treasury, have determined that are eligible and intend repatriate approximately $ million dividends subject the elective % dividends received deduction. Accordingly, recorded corresponding tax provision benefit $ million from the reversal previously provided . deferred tax liabilities these unremitted foreign subsidiary earnings. intend pay this dividend fiscal year . Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . Tax Contingencies. are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed and closed its audits our consolidated federal income tax returns through . recently entered into closing agreement with the IRS for tax years through resulting certain adjustments our federal income tax liability for those years. Accordingly, our fiscal year tax provision has been reduced $ million result reversing previously established reserves excess the additional tax liability assessed the IRS for the - tax years. The IRS currently conducting audit our consolidated federal income tax return for tax years through . Although believe have appropriate support for the positions taken our tax returns, have recorded liability for our best estimate the probable loss certain these positions, the non-current portion which included other long-term liabilities. believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years, based our assessment many factors including past experience and interpretations tax law applied the facts each matter, which matters result primarily from intercompany transfer pricing, tax benefits from the Foreign Sales Corporation and Extra Territorial Income tax rules and the amount research and experimentation tax credits claimed. Although believe our recorded assets and liabilities are reasonable, tax regulations are subject interpretation and tax litigation inherently uncertain; therefore our assessments can involve both series complex judgments about future events and rely heavily estimates and assumptions. Although believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. Based the results audit litigation material effect our income tax provision, net income, cash flows the period periods for which that determination made could result. Due the complexity involved are not able estimate the range reasonably possible losses excess amounts recorded. NOTE OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June Tax contingencies $ , $ , Legal contingencies Employee stock option transfer program Other Other long-term liabilities $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans, million options were transferred JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan) under the stock option transfer program. The options transferred JPMorgan were amended and restated upon transfer contain terms and conditions typical equity option transactions entered into between sophisticated financial counterparties arm\x92 length using standard terms and definitions for equity derivatives. June , , the options have strike prices ranging from $ $ per share and have expiration dates between December and December . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over the succeeding four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without previous notice. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change stockholders\x92 equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. Our Board Directors had previously approved program repurchase shares our common stock reduce the dilutive effect our stock option and stock purchase plans. Under these repurchase plans, have made the following share repurchases: (share amounts millions, dollars billions) ( ) Fiscal year ( ) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount First quarter $ $ $ Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter \x96 \x96 Total $ $ $ ( ) All amounts repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . addition, part our authorized stock repurchase program, have purchased call options million shares our common stock with strike prices ranging from $ \x96 $ . The call options have maturities ranging from July , January , and are reflected stockholders\x92 equity. fiscal year , our Board Directors approved the following dividends: Approval Date Per Share Dividend Date Record Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date July , $ August , $ September , July , $ November , $ , December , September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , ( ) September , ( ) The dividend approved June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - . The accrued liability for the dividend approved June , $ million included other current liabilities. PAGE Part Item January and September , , our Board Directors declared annual dividends our common stock $ and $ per share, respectively. The dividends were paid March and November , , respectively, shareholders record the close business February , and October , . NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related tax effects are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains/(losses), net tax effect $( ) , $ and $( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ and $ Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $( ) and $( ) , ( , ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ and $ Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income /(loss) $ , $ ( ) $ The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains derivative instruments $ $ Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Effective July , , adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. connection with the use the retroactive restatement method, income statement amounts were restated for fiscal year reflect results the fair-value method SFAS . had been applied from its original effective date. Total compensation cost recognized income for stock-based employee compensation awards was $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . The amounts for fiscal year include $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) due the completion the employee stock option transfer program. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. The administrative committee under the plan approved change the common stock purchase discount and approved PAGE Part Item the elimination the related look back period and change quarterly purchase periods that became effective July , . result, beginning fiscal year , shares our common stock may presently purchased employees three months intervals % the fair market value the last day each three month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal year employees purchased million shares average price $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Under the plan effect previous fiscal year , shares our common stock could purchased six month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six month period. Employees could purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal year and employees purchased million and million shares average prices $ , and $ per share. Savings Plan. have savings plan the United States, that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and . Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. Stock Plans. fiscal year , began granting employees stock awards instead stock options. The stock award program offers employees the opportunity earn shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher (\x93eligible options\x94) JPMorgan. The unvested eligible options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. Under the terms the program, JPMorgan paid $ million for the million options transferred. made initial payment $ million participating employees for the transferred options, with remaining portion paid one more payments that are subject participating employees\x92 continued employment over the two three years following the transfer. The options that were transferred JPMorgan resulted stock-based compensation expense $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) which was recorded the second quarter fiscal year . The contingent payments applicable eligible options that are subject continued employment participating employees will recognized compensation expense over the vesting period the contingent payments. The stock option transfer program also resulted decrease our long-term deferred tax assets due the excess recorded compensation expense for these options over the related tax deduction reported our tax return. For fiscal year , deferred tax assets were reduced approximately $ billion with offsetting reduction paid- capital, reflecting the reduction previously recorded deductions reported our tax return excess stock based compensation expense. description our stock plans follows. have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants and advisors. The plans provide for awards stock options and stock awards. June , , aggregate million shares were available for future grant under our stock plans. Our plans under which awards may issued not contain separate limitations the number stock awards; all million shares remaining available for grant June , could awarded stock awards. addition, awards that expire are cancelled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. The options transferred JPMorgan have been removed from our plans; any options transferred JPMorgan that expire without being exercised will not become available for grant under any our plans. November , , our shareholders approved amendments the stock plans that allowed our Board Directors adjust eligible options, unvested stock awards, and shared performance stock awards maintain their pre-dividend value after the $ special dividend. Additional awards were granted for options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards the ratio post- and pre-special dividend stock price the -dividend date. PAGE Part Item Strike prices for options were decreased the same ratio. Stock-based compensation was not affected this adjustment. result this approval and payment the $ special dividend December , , adjustment the prices and number shares existing awards was made resulting total million options and million stock awards being issued adjust the outstanding awards. addition, the target shared performance stock awards were increased million shares. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards. Stock awards are grants that entitle the holder shares common stock the award vests. Our stock awards generally vest ratably over five-year period. Shared Performance Stock Awards are form stock award which the number shares ultimately received depends our performance against specified performance targets. The performance period July , through June , (January , through June , for certain executive officers). the end the performance period, the number shares stock and stock awards issued will determined adjusting upward downward from the target range between % and % ( % % for certain executive officers). The final performance percentage which the payout will based, considering performance metrics established for the performance period, will determined the Board Directors committee the board its sole discretion. Shares stock will issued following the end the performance period and the stock awards vest ratably over the following two years. Because these awards cover three-year period, Shared Performance Stock Awards will only awarded fiscal year and newly hired and promoted employees eligible receive Shared Performance Stock Awards. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards are amortized over the vesting period (generally years) using the straight line method. The following activity has occurred under our existing plans: (share amounts millions) Year Ended June Stock awards Beginning balance Granted Special dividend adjustment \x96 Vested (. ) ( ) Cancelled ( ) ( ) Ending balance Weighted-average fair value per share for shares granted during the year* $ $ Shared performance stock awards Beginning balance \x96 Granted Special dividend adjustment \x96 Vested \x96 \x96 Cancelled ( ) ( ) Ending balance Weighted-average fair value per share for shares granted during the year* $ $ * Adjusted for additional awards granted for the $ special dividend. Stock Options. Nonqualified stock options have been granted our directors under our non-employee director stock plans. Nonqualified and incentive stock options have been granted our officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted before generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. June , , stock options for million shares were vested. PAGE Part Item The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock plans during fiscal year and was $ and $ , respectively. stock options were granted fiscal . The fair value each option grant estimated the date grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants: Year Ended June Weighted average expected life years Dividend per share $ $ Volatility % % Risk-free interest rate % % Employee stock options outstanding are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts) Price per Share Shares Range Weighted average Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled Forfeited ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Stock Option Transfer Program ( ) \x96 Canceled Forfeited ( ) \x96 Balance, June , $ \x96 $ $ Special Dividend Adjustment \x96 Granted \x96 \x96 \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled Forfeited ( ) \x96 Balance, June , $ \x96 $ $ For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding employee stock options June , are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts and years) Outstanding options Exercisable options Range exercise prices Shares Remaining life (years) Weighted average price Shares Weighted average price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ June , , million transferred options Morgan remained outstanding and are excluded from the amounts noted employee options outstanding the tables above. See Note . addition, the tables above include the total options outstanding million options outstanding that were granted conjunction with PAGE Part Item corporate acquisitions. These options are included the option totals; however, they are excluded from the exercise price ranges presented. These options had exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect employee stock options and awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For the years ended June , , , and , billion, billion and million shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices the stock options were greater than equal the average price the common shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended June , , million shared performance stock awards, out the million targeted amount outstanding, have been excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the number shares ultimately issued contingent our performance against metrics established for the performance period, discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans. NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ and thereafter $ , have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. June , , had guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company. The total amount these guarantees was approximately $ million. Effective December , , the unconditional guarantees were terminated. PAGE Part Item connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. addition, also provide indemnification against credit risk several geographical locations our volume license resellers case the resellers fail collect from the end user. Due the nature the indemnification provided our resellers, can not estimate the fair value, nor determine the total nominal amount the indemnification. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Our product warranty accrual reflects management\x92 best estimate our probable liability under its product warranties (primarily relating the Xbox console). determine the warranty accrual based known product failures ( any), historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Our warranty accrual totals $ million June , . There has been significant activity impacting the results operations for any period presented. NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government competition law matters. March , , the European Commission announced decision its competition law investigation Microsoft. The Commission concluded that infringed European competition law refusing provide our competitors with licenses certain protocol technology the Windows server operating systems and including streaming media playback functionality Windows desktop operating systems. The Commission ordered make the relevant licenses our technology available our competitors and develop and make available version the Windows desktop operating system that does not include specified software relating media playback. The decision also imposed fine \x80 million, which resulted charge the third quarter fiscal year \x80 million ($ million). filed appeal the decision the Court First Instance June , . December , , the Court ordered that must comply with the decision pending review appeal and are taking steps ensure are compliance. The hearing date for the appeal expected determined later calendar year . continue contest the conclusion that European competition law was infringed and will defend our position vigorously. The Korean Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) investigating whether have violated Korean competition law including Windows Media Player technologies Windows, including Windows Messenger Windows, distributing Windows Media Services optional component Windows Server. Hearings this issue before the KFTC began July , , continued August , , and may extended into the fall . other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state Attorneys General have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, unfair competition, and overcharge class action lawsuits. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and federal courts behalf variously defined classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain software applications products. The federal cases have been consolidated the . District Court for Maryland. These cases allege that competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications, and they seek recover alleged overcharges for these products. date, courts have dismissed all claims for damages cases brought against indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Nine those state court decisions have been affirmed appeal. Appeals one those state rulings pending. There was appeal four states. Claims under federal law brought behalf foreign purchasers have been dismissed the . District Court Maryland have all claims brought behalf consumers seeking injunctive relief under federal law. The ruling the injunctive relief and the ruling dismissing the federal claims indirect purchasers are currently appeal the United States Court Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, ruling denying certification certain proposed classes . direct purchasers. Courts eleven states have ruled that indirect PAGE Part Item purchaser cases may proceed class actions, while courts two states have denied class certification. , reached agreement with counsel for the California plaintiffs settle all claims consolidated cases that state. Under the proposed settlement, class members will able obtain vouchers that entitle the class members reimbursed the face value their vouchers for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers issued will depend the number class members who make claim and are issued vouchers. Two-thirds the value vouchers unissued unredeemed class members will made available certain schools California the form vouchers that also may redeemed for cash against purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware, software, and related services. Since the beginning , also reached similar agreements settle all claims number other states. The proposed settlements these states are structured similarly the California settlement, except that, among other differences, one-half the value vouchers unissued class members will made available certain schools the relevant states. The maximum value vouchers issued these settlements, including the California settlement, approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools who are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements Arizona, California, the District Columbia, Florida, Kansas, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Montana, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont and West Virginia have received final court approval. The proposed settlement Nebraska has received preliminary approval the court those states, but still requires final approval. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ billion and $ billion, with the actual cost dependent upon many unknown factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims process. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencie , and FASB Interpretation (FIN) , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss , June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ billion, net payments date for administrative expenses and legal fees. Other antitrust litigation and claims. August , , the City and County San Francisco, the City Los Angeles, and Los Angeles, San Mateo, Contra Costa and Santa Clara Counties filed putative class action against San Francisco Superior Court. The action was brought behalf all governmental entities, agencies and political subdivisions the State California who indirectly purchased our operating system word processing and spreadsheet software during the period from February , the date trial the action. The plaintiffs seek treble damages under California\x92 Cartwright Act and disgorgement unlawful profits under its Unfair Competition Act resulting from our alleged combinations restrain trade, deny competition, and monopolize the world markets for operating systems and word processing and spreadsheet applications (and productivity suites including these applications). were served with the complaint August , and removed the case the . District Court for Maryland. Our motion dismiss the complaint was granted its entirety April , with leave file amended complaint alleging claims under the Cartwright Act based conduct within the four-year statute limitation the court ruled applies the plaintiffs\x92 claims. Plaintiffs also may seek appeal the court\x92 decision. December , , RealNetworks, Inc. filed suit against alleging violations federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws. The alleged violations relate streaming media features Windows and related technologies. RealNetworks seeks damages and injunctive relief, including permanent injunction requiring offer version Windows products with streaming media features. deny the allegations and will vigorously defend the action. RealNetworks filed the case federal court San Jose, California. has been consolidated for pretrial purposes with other cases pending the . District Court for Maryland. November , , Novell, Inc. filed complaint the . District Court for Utah asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four six claims the complaint. The remaining two claims were not dismissed and litigation has proceeded those claims. are seeking leave appeal the decision not dismiss those claims. addition, have been notified additional antitrust damage claims several competitors and several licensees our products. July , , announced settlement with IBM resolving claims asserted IBM that arose from the circumstances United States . Microsoft and findings fact that identified IBM having been impacted its business practices which the . . District Court ruled against , and claims related IBM\x92 and SmartSuite businesses. Under the agreement, paid IBM $ million and extended $ million credit for IBM\x92 internal deployment our software. IBM released all antitrust claims against based past conduct except for PAGE Part Item claims related its server business which IBM will not sue for least two years. The costs related this settlement were accrued other current liabilities June , . addition the IBM matter, June , , have recorded liability $ million for the foregoing other antitrust lawsuits and claims. While intend vigorously defend those matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes which estimate could $ million aggregate beyond recorded amounts. Patent cases. are defendant more than patent infringement cases that are defending vigorously. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois February , , the plaintiffs alleged infringement the browser functionality Windows. August , , the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $ million damages for infringement from the date the plaintiffs\x92 patent was issued through September . The plaintiffs are seeking equitable accounting for damages from September the present. January , , the trial court entered final judgment $ million, including post-trial interest $ million, and entered injunction against distribution any new infringing products, but stayed execution the judgment and the injunction pending our appeal. appealed and March , the Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the decision and vacated the judgment, ruling that the trial court had erred excluding certain previous art evidence and ruling matter law other evidence. The appellate court also reversed the trial court\x92 decision that the inventors had not engaged inequitable conduct failing reveal material previous art while obtaining the patent. October , the . Patent Office initiated Director-ordered -examination the Eolas patent. February , , the Patent Office issued Office Action rejecting the claims the Eolas patent. believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. The actual costs are dependent upon many unknown factors such the events retrial the plaintiff\x92 claims. Research Corporation Technologies, Inc. . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Arizona December , , the plaintiff has asserted two patents related half-toning, which believes are infringed certain printing functionality allegedly present different versions Windows. Plaintiff seeks unspecified amount damages the form \x93reasonable royalties\x94 Microsoft\x92 Windows products. Microsoft\x92 defense based the plaintiff\x92 inequitable conduct was tried August and , . The remaining issues the case may scheduled for trial the second half calendar year . TVI . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Northern District California May , , the plaintiff alleges infringement the Autoplay feature Windows. The case scheduled for trial the second half . Microsoft . Lucent , filed the . District Court San Diego April , , are seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe any valid patent among number patents Lucent has been asserting against computer manufacturers who sell computers with Microsoft software pre-installed. trial date has been set. Arendi USA, Inc. and Arendi Holding Limited . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Rhode Island July , , the plaintiffs alleged infringement one patent certain Smart Tags features Microsoft Office and Office . Following trial September the jury returned verdict for , finding that did not infringe the patents. The plaintiffs have appealed. Amado . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Central District California March , , the plaintiff has accused the link table functionality available Microsoft Access when used with Microsoft Excel. After jury trial, were found infringe one claim the patent and damages were awarded the amount $ million. The judge later found for its defense laches, which reduced the damages award $ million. The court also imposed injunction against further distribution the accused feature part Microsoft Access, but stayed the injunction pending appellate review. have appealed. BTG . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Northern District California July , , the plaintiff has accused our Windows and Office products infringing several patents. The patents are directed \x93update\x94 technology, active desktop concepts and off-line browsing. trial date has been set. AVG . Microsoft , the plaintiff filed number cases the Eastern District Texas against , our major OEMs, other computer game console makers (Sony and Nintendo), and computer game publishers August , . The case concerns graphics functionality Windows and Xbox. The first case against scheduled for trial January . Adverse outcomes some all the pending patent cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against , adversely affecting distribution our operating system application products. The risks associated with adverse decision may result material settlements. Other. are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, these matters are subject PAGE Part Item inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view them may change the future. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable. June , , had accrued liabilities totaling $ billion other current liabilities and $ million other long-term liabilities for all the above matters. NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment revenue and operating income/(loss) follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions MSN , , , Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment , , , Reconciling amounts ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Operating Income/(Loss) Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) ( ) MSN ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) ( ) ( ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Professional and Home, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools \x96 Server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other server products. Also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. PAGE Part Item Information Worker \x96 Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting and OneNote, allocation for Server CALs, and professional product support services. Microsoft Business Solutions \x96 Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Axapta, Microsoft Solomon, Microsoft CRM, Microsoft Retail Management System, Microsoft Point Sale and other business applications and services including the Microsoft Partner Program. Microsoft Business Solutions also develops Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting and Business Contact Manager for Outlook, which are marketed Information Worker. MSN \x96 Personal communication services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels, and online paid services including MSN Internet Access, MSN Premium Web Services, and MSN Mobile service. Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Home and Entertainment \x96 Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, mice, keyboards, Mac Office, and platform products. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, quarter end cut off timing, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards, and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate-level activity including certain legal settlements and accruals for legal contingencies. Significant reconciling items are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Operating income reconciling amounts: Legal settlements and contingent liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) Corporate-level expenses ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level expenses exclude legal settlements and contingent liabilities, stock-based compensation expense, and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % total fiscal year and revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and were included all operating segments. single customer accounted for more than % revenue . PAGE Part Item Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which operate, follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States, licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Latin America and Canada. Long-lived assets, classified the geographic location the controlling statutory company which that company operates, are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States $ , $ , Other countries Total $ , $ , PAGE Part Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the Time Warner settlement and $ billion impairments investments. ( ) Includes stock-based compensation charges totaling $ billion for the employee stock option transfer program. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ billion (pre-tax) related the Sun Microsystems Inc. settlement and fine imposed the European Commission. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the settlement certain litigation with Novell, Inc. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the Gateway, Inc. and Burst com settlements, Sun Microsystems, Inc., and additional charges related anti-trust and certain other matters. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related IBM and other matters. PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission, and our report dated August , expressed unqualified opinion management\x92 assessment the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting and unqualified opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part Item , ITEM . CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ITEM . CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited this assessment our internal control over financial reporting; their report included Item . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinions. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , fairly stated, all material respects, based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Also our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , the Company and our report dated August , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part , III Item , , , , , ITEM . OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ITEM . DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this report. Information about our Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ITEM . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information About the Board and its Committees \x96 Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ITEM . CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ITEM . PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the heading \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PAGE Part Item PART ITEM . EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) . Call Option Transaction Confirmation dated December , between Microsoft Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Gain and Bonus Deferral Program ( ) * Form Stock Award Agreement ( ) * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors ( ) * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the January , June , performance period ( ) * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the July , June , performance period ( ) * Form Stock Option Agreement ( ) * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Current Report Form - dated November , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. PAGE SIGNATURES Pursuant the requirements Section ( ) the Securities Exchange Act , the Registrant has duly caused this report signed its behalf the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, the City Redmond, State Washington, August , . ICROSOFT ORPORATION : / / HRISTOPHER . IDDELL Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President; Chief Financial Officer Pursuant the requirements the Securities Exchange Act , this report has been signed below the following persons behalf Registrant and the capacities indicated August , Signature Title / / ILLIAM . ATES III William . Gates III Chairman and Chief Software Architect / / TEVEN . ALLMER Steven . Ballmer Director and Chief Executive Officer / / AMES . ASH , . James . Cash, . Director / / INA UBLON Dina Dublon Director / / AYMOND . ILMARTIN Raymond . Gilmartin Director / / AUGHLIN OROLOGOS Ann McLaughlin Korologos Director / / AVID . ARQUARDT David . Marquardt Director / / HARLES . OSKI Charles . Noski Director / / ELMUT ANKE Helmut Panke Director / / . HIRLEY Jon . Shirley Director / / HRISTOPHER . IDDELL Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) / / . COTT ALERIO . Scott Valerio Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) PAGE ', 'item 1a. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1b. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 1c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 2. ': 'PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated slightly more than acres owned land our corporate campus and approximately million square feet leased. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. May , the Redmond, Washington City Council approved our proposed development agreement, which establishes the framework under which can develop additional million square feet facilities our main campus. also own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ', 'item 3. ': 'LEGAL PROCEEDINGS July , , announced settlement with IBM resolving claims asserted IBM that arose from the circumstances United States . Microsoft and findings fact that identified IBM having been impacted its business practices which the . . District Court ruled against , and claims related IBM\x92 and SmartSuite businesses. Under the agreement, paid IBM $ million and extended $ million credit for IBM\x92 internal deployment Microsoft software. IBM released all antitrust claims against based past conduct except for claims related its server business which IBM will not sue for least two years. See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding other legal proceedings which are involved. ', 'item 4. ': 'SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 5. ': 'MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low September , our Board Directors declared common stock dividend $ per share, which was paid November . That was the only dividend declared paid fiscal year . See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal year . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Maximum number shares ( approximate dollar value) shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , PAGE Part Item ', 'item 6. ': '', 'item 7. ': 'Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x96 Critical Accounting Policies\x94 this report. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. While hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our future net revenues. General economic and geo-political risks may affect our revenue and profitability. Softness corporate information technology spending other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries generally and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions may lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major PAGE Part Item earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return the investment make, that may experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. have limited insurance. maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks property loss. Because the unavailability high cost conventional insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with the risks discussed this report other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include: \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; and \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online services. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers August , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman the Board and Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment Lisa Brummel Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Microsoft Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft International . Scott Valerio Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer Kevin . Johnson Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer Michelle (Mich) Mathews Senior Vice President, Marketing Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Information Worker Business Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. PAGE Part Item . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity, and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Brummel was named Corporate Vice President, Human Resources April . Previous this position she had been Corporate Vice President the Home and Retail Division. She joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company Senior Vice President upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . Previous the acquisition, had served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Great Plains. joined Great Plains . . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President, President Microsoft International June . had been Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since March . Previous that, had been Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing since July . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . Valerio was named Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer May . has served Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller since April . Before joining Microsoft, . Valerio was the Vice President Corporate Controllership The Walt Disney Company from January April . Before joining Disney, . Valerio was the Chief Financial Officer Mindwave Software Inc. from May October . Prior going Mindwave, . Valerio spent years with PricewaterhouseCoopers. . Johnson was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services March . had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February . . Johnson had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Liddell was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer May . . Liddell served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer International Paper Company since March , and prior becoming Chief Financial Officer, held the positions Vice President, Finance and Controller. . Liddell held leadership positions International Paper and its New Zealand affiliate Carter Holt Harvey Limited for the ten years prior joining Microsoft. . Liddell served Chief Executive Officer Carter Holt Harvey Limited from and Chief Financial Officer from . . Mathews was named Senior Vice President, Marketing May . Before holding her current position, . Mathews had been Corporate Vice President, Marketing since August and Vice President Corporate Public Relations since . . Mathews joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Information Worker Business June . had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August . . Raikes had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business June . Previous assuming that role, was responsible for managing Developer and Platform Evangelism. . Rudder joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item , , , EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. believe have been successful our efforts recruit qualified employees, but cannot guarantee that will continue successful the future. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. believe that our relationship with our employees excellent. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with furnish the SEC. Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ITEM . PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated slightly more than acres owned land our corporate campus and approximately million square feet leased. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. May , the Redmond, Washington City Council approved our proposed development agreement, which establishes the framework under which can develop additional million square feet facilities our main campus. also own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS July , , announced settlement with IBM resolving claims asserted IBM that arose from the circumstances United States . Microsoft and findings fact that identified IBM having been impacted its business practices which the . . District Court ruled against , and claims related IBM\x92 and SmartSuite businesses. Under the agreement, paid IBM $ million and extended $ million credit for IBM\x92 internal deployment Microsoft software. IBM released all antitrust claims against based past conduct except for claims related its server business which IBM will not sue for least two years. See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding other legal proceedings which are involved. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low September , our Board Directors declared common stock dividend $ per share, which was paid November . That was the only dividend declared paid fiscal year . See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal year . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Maximum number shares ( approximate dollar value) shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , PAGE Part Item ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ $ Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Long-term obligations , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) The financial data presented reflects stock-based compensation expense except fiscal year , prescribed Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure and amendment FASB Statement . , reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation discussed Note . fiscal year had been restated, the operating income and net income would have been $ , million and $ , million. ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Fiscal year also includes the acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. ( ) Fiscal year includes the acquisition Navision , Rare Ltd. and Placeware, Inc. for total $ billion cash and $ million stock and other consideration. PAGE Part Item ITEM . MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (Notes). develop, manufacture, license, and support wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, PCs, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games, and peripherals. Online communication and information services are delivered through our MSN portals and channels around the world. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Home and Entertainment segment particularly subject seasonality its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Historically, approximately % % Home and Entertainment revenue has been generated the second fiscal quarter. believe the seasonality revenue likely continue the future. intend sustain the long-term growth our businesses through technological innovation, engineering excellence, and commitment delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary challenges help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems, including versions for new devices such Tablet PCs, Media Center PCs, Portable Media Centers, and mobile devices such Smartphones. are also increasing our focus emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software those markets. addition, develop innovative software applications and solutions enhance the productivity information workers, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain the growth our Server and Tools business amid competition from other vendors both proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 the most advanced, easiest deploy and manage and most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. take advantage new market opportunities, continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, such services for consumers, businesses and large enterprises that believe can contribute significantly our long-term growth. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. Delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative new products, creating opportunity for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, putting some our most significant legal cases behind , and improving our internal business processes. Our focus fiscal year building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, delivering compelling value propositions customers, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: \x95 Growth our anchor businesses through forthcoming innovations and new product launches and making inroads against software piracy. \x95 Expanding our innovation portfolio offering extensions our technologies targeted towards specific customer needs \x96 either new products higher-value versions existing products. \x95 Delivering software services through online consumer services and services for businesses that enable workers collaborate interactively. PAGE Part Item Worldwide macroeconomic factors have strong correlation business and consumer demand for our software, services, games and Internet service offerings. expect that general macroeconomic trends will remain stable experience slight improvement fiscal year compared fiscal year . Our optimism balanced recent data which revealed slight downward revisions when compared previous forecasts for Gross Domestic Product growth the ., United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan and Latin America. The leading indicators were also revised slightly lower for the major markets. Additionally, recent surveys chief information officers also reflect slight downward revisions expected corporate spend budgets and short-term purchase intent. open source software development and distribution evolves, continue seek differentiate our products from competitive products based open source software. believe that Microsoft\x92 share server unit operating systems held steady fiscal year , while Linux distributions rose slightly faster absolute basis. Summary ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , ( )% $ , % Our revenue growth for fiscal year was driven growth licensing Windows Server \x99 operating systems and other server applications, licensing Windows  Client operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other Information Worker products. The license revenue growth resulted from growth server hardware and shipments, fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, and overall improvements spending. The November launch the \x93Halo  \x94 Xbox game also contributed the overall revenue growth for the company. Based our preliminary estimates, worldwide shipments from all sources grew about % % and total server hardware shipments grew approximately % % during fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive , primarily due relative strengthening most foreign currencies, particularly the euro and Japanese yen, against the . dollar. Had the exchange rates from the previous year been effect fiscal year , translated international revenue growth earned local currencies would have been approximately $ million two percentage points lower for fiscal year . hedge portion our international currency exposures, thereby reducing our overall exposure. Fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates have greater impact non-OEM commercial and retail license business significant portion those product revenues are denominated foreign currencies. The vast majority OEM license revenue denominated . dollars. Partially offsetting revenue growth rates was $ billion decline earned revenue from Upgrade Advantage fiscal year . The Upgrade Advantage contract value reached its expiration dates the first quarter fiscal year . This revenue was recognized over fiscal year and fiscal year and the first quarter fiscal year when the contract period expired. Revenue growth fiscal year was primarily driven the growth licensing Windows Client operating systems through OEMs, Windows Server operating systems, Office and other server applications result growth and server hardware shipments. The worldwide shipment growth rate from all sources was estimated % and the Windows server shipment was estimated % fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive fiscal year due relative strengthening most foreign currencies versus the . dollar. This resulted approximately $ billion growth total revenue. Revenue growth fiscal year was driven primarily multi-year licensing that occurred before the Licensing transition date the first quarter fiscal year . The fiscal year revenue growth also reflected $ million % increase associated with OEM licensing Windows operating systems and $ million % increase revenue from Xbox video game consoles. For fiscal year , the operating income increase was driven decline stock-based compensation expense; increased revenue Server and Tools, Client and Information Worker, which have higher gross margins compared other segments; and reduction legal costs associated with major litigation. addition, strong sales Halo reduced the overall operating loss for the Home and Entertainment segment for fiscal year . The $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense was partially offset increased operating expenses $ million related increased salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. General and administrative expenses related major litigation declined fiscal year due the $ billion charges related the PAGE Part Item settlement Sun Microsystems litigation and the fine imposed the European Commission fiscal year . This effect was partially offset legal expenses $ billion related settlements with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs resolve antitrust issues and other matters. fiscal year , the operating income decline was caused primarily $ billion legal charges and $ billion stock-based compensation expense related our employee stock option transfer program, mainly offset increase revenue. fiscal year , the growth operating income reflected increase revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses related employee and related costs associated with headcount and increased legal settlement expenses, primarily the Time Warner settlement charge $ million. fiscal year , implemented changes employee compensation whereby employees are granted stock awards rather than stock options. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year which employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher JPMorgan. The unvested options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. total million the million eligible options were transferred, which resulted additional stock-based compensation expense $ billion the second quarter fiscal year . result these changes, expect stock-based compensation expense continue decrease for least the next three fiscal years. The following table shows total stock-based compensation expense segment and income statement classification for fiscal years , and . ( millions) Increase/ (Decrease) Increase/ (Decrease) Client $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Server and Tools , , ( , ) Information Worker ( ) Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) MSN ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) Corporate , ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Cost revenue ( ) Research and development , , , , ( , ) Sales and marketing , , ( ) General and administrative ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) fiscal year , expect revenue grow higher rate than fiscal year , mainly due the launches new products. expect higher revenue growth fiscal year compared fiscal year Home and Entertainment primarily driven the launch Xbox . estimate worldwide shipments will grow between % % and worldwide server unit shipments will grow between % % fiscal year compared fiscal year . not expect benefit from year-over-year foreign currency exchange rates fiscal year . expect our operating income growth rate fiscal year exceed our revenue growth rate. Operating income expected reflect lower operating expenses due lower costs for legal settlements than incurred fiscal year and reduction stock-based compensation expense. The operating loss for Home and Entertainment expected increase fiscal year driven the launch and investments Xbox . SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Our seven segments are Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the PAGE Part Item segments. The segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements presented basis consistent with the Company\x92 internal management reporting, accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate level expenses have been excluded from our segment operating results and are analyzed separately. Fiscal years and amounts have been restated for certain internal reorganizations and conform the current period presentation including reclassifying certain legal settlements from business segments corporate-level expense. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Client includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems. Client revenue growth correlated with the growth corporate and consumer purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The operating results for all periods presented have been restated reflect the reorganization the Windows Security group from Server and Tools Client. Client revenue increased fiscal year driven % growth OEM license units and $ million % growth OEM revenue from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. This channel-mix shift reflects our customers\x92 continued preference for upgrading their operating systems through the OEM channel when they replace their PCs versus the purchase multi-year licensing agreement. The mix OEM Windows operating systems licensed with premium edition operating systems percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed during the year remained flat % total OEM Windows operating systems compared the previous year. Revenue earned from Upgrade Advantage declined $ million fiscal year contributing the decrease commercial and retail licensing revenue. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected the mix premium versions operating systems licensed during the year, changes the geographical mix, the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders, and previous changes deferral rates and product lives for undelivered elements unearned revenue. Client revenue increase fiscal year was driven % growth OEM licenses and % growth OEM revenue increased consumer unit shipments the first half the fiscal year and growth business unit shipments the second half fiscal year . Client operating income increased fiscal year primarily due increase OEM revenue and decrease stock-based compensation expense. These factors were partially offset increase sales and marketing expenses associated with \x93Start Something,\x94 globally launched advertising campaign, marketing for security initiatives, and increase salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. The additional headcount for research and development was primarily devoted the continued development the Windows Client next-generation operating system. The operating income for fiscal year has been restated for reclassification legal settlement charges totaling $ million from Client corporate expenses conform the current year presentation. Client operating income increased for fiscal year compared fiscal year mainly due growth revenue, partially offset increased operating expenses primarily related stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . anticipate that worldwide shipments will grow approximately % % fiscal year , continuing influence our growth Client revenue. addition, estimate that increasing shipments laptops percentage total systems will continue positively influence Client revenue growth due shorter replacement cycles for laptops. The time between operating system releases may affect our ability close some multi-year licensing agreements. expect growth rates emerging markets continue outpace mature market growth rates. Piracy continues challenge both emerging and mature markets. intend focus growing OEM licenses faster than the overall market reducing piracy, particularly the mature markets, through initiatives such Windows Genuine Advantage. Client commercial and retail licensing revenues are expected continue lag behind overall Client revenue growth, but expect see improvements these channels fiscal year compared fiscal year . anticipate modest increase our premium product mix fiscal year , although PAGE Part Item anticipate shipments the premium-priced Media Center Edition will grow percentage the total operating system shipments. Major investments fiscal year will focus development Windows Vista, the next-generation operating system, and will include marketing initiatives such the global \x93Start Something\x94 campaign. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server  , Exchange Server, and other server products. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server and Tools concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content, and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. The segment uses multiple channels for licensing including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. The licenses are sold both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses depending upon the needs different customers. Server and Tools uses product innovation and partnerships with information technology professionals drive the adoption and sales growth its products. Server and Tools growth driven performance the overall market for information technology \x96 both hardware and software. The operating results for previous years have been restated for the reorganization the Windows Security group from Server and Tools Client and the reorganization Professional product support services from Information Worker Server and Tools. Server and Tools revenue growth fiscal year was mainly driven growth Server and Server application revenue, including CAL revenue, which grew $ billion % fiscal year reflecting broad adoption Windows Server System \x99 products, including Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and Management Servers. estimate that overall server hardware shipments grew % % during fiscal year and that Windows-based server shipments grew comparable rate for the same period. Consulting and Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % compared the previous year, primarily due increased consultant utilization and new Premier customers. Foreign currency exchange rate changes accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points total Server and Tools revenue growth, which was offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage revenue earned. fiscal year , Server and Server applications revenue, including CAL revenue, grew $ billion %. Foreign currency exchange rates contributed approximately $ million five percentage points Server and Tools revenue growth fiscal year compared fiscal year . Consulting and Premier product support services revenue increased $ million % compared fiscal year due increased customer penetration from new product offerings. Server and Tools operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due increase revenue and decrease stock-based compensation expense. This was partially offset increase sales and marketing costs and headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits. Operating income for the previous year has been restated for reclassification $ billion legal settlements from Server and Tools corporate expenses conform the current year presentation. Server and Tools operating income for fiscal year increased slightly due the revenue increase offset increased stock-based compensation charges, including $ million related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . expect worldwide server hardware shipments grow % % fiscal year . However, face strong competition from Linux-based, Unix, and other server operating systems. anticipate little year-over-year foreign currency exchange rate impacts fiscal year . also expect Server and Tools operating expenses increase during fiscal year due expected investment headcount and new marketing initiatives and upcoming product releases, including SQL Server and Visual Studio . PAGE Part Item Information Worker ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Information Worker consists the Microsoft Office System programs, servers, services, and solutions designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. Information Worker includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio  , SharePoint  Portal Server CALs, and other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting  and OneNote  . Most revenue from this segment comes from licensing our Office System products. Revenue growth depends the ability add value the core Office product set and expand our product offerings other information worker areas such document lifecycle management, collaboration, and business intelligence. Beginning fiscal year , the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization, which was historically part Information Worker, was -aligned Microsoft Business Solutions. result this change, Information Worker results have been restated reflect the reclassification the SMS& organization Microsoft Business Solutions. The results for previous periods have also been restated due the reclassification Professional product support services from Information Worker into Server and Tools. Information Worker revenue increased fiscal year primarily due % $ million increase volume licensing, retail packaged product, and pre-installed versions Office Japan, % $ million increase OEM revenue, and the impact foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset reduced Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Changes foreign currency exchange rates accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points the revenue growth for fiscal year compared the previous fiscal year, offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Revenue growth for fiscal year from volume licensing, retail packaged product and pre-installed versions Office Japan was % aggregate. This increase was driven recognition unearned revenue primarily from large increase multi-year licenses signed previous the transition our Licensing programs and approximately $ million related the launch Office . OEM licensing revenue grew % $ million. Foreign currency exchange rates provided approximately $ million % total Information Worker revenue growth. Information Worker operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due the revenue growth and decrease stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses were also impacted reduction marketing campaign costs from the previous period associated with the launch Office . This decline was offset increase headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits. Information Worker operating income fiscal year increased from the previous year primarily due growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, primarily related $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year and higher sales and marketing expenses. The revenue growth rate for Information Worker expected higher fiscal year than fiscal year . expect sustained momentum our OEM and multi-year licensing offerings and increased purchasing Office System enterprises complete their product evaluations. expect see slowing revenue from packaged product late the year approach the next version launch. anticipate little year-over-year foreign currency exchange rate benefit fiscal year . Microsoft Business Solutions ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) ( )% $ ( ) % Microsoft Business Solutions provides integrated and adaptable business management software solutions optimized for small and mid-sized businesses, large organizations and divisions global enterprises. Microsoft Business Solutions products are developed deliver affordable and rich functionality through adaptable software platform PAGE Part Item that works like and with other Microsoft technologies. The main products consist line business solutions, customer relationship management software, retail solutions, and related services. Revenue derived from software and services sales, with software sales representing significant amount total revenue. Software revenues include both new software licenses and enhancement plans, which provide customers with future software upgrades over the period the plan. Our solutions are delivered through worldwide network channel partners that provide specialized services and local support tailored customer needs. The market for Microsoft Business Solutions highly competitive, with few strong players the enterprise segment while the mid-market segment more fragmented. Microsoft Business Solutions now includes the SMS& organization, which previously had been included Information Worker. SMS& supports small and mid-market customers for Microsoft including Microsoft Business Solutions. Results have been restated reflect the reclassification SMS& for all periods presented. Also result the reorganization, the Microsoft Partner Program became component Microsoft Business Solutions. The increase Microsoft Business Solutions revenue fiscal year was mainly due % revenue growth software partially offset % decline services revenue, which resulted from encouraging our partners provide more these types services. The software revenue increase was driven % growth license revenue and % growth enhancement revenue compared the previous year, and attributed growth our line business solutions and customer relationship management solutions, and increased Microsoft Partner Program subscriptions. The revenue increase fiscal year was primarily attributable continued growth licensing Navision and Axapta line business solutions, new sales Microsoft CRM, and Microsoft Partner Program subscriptions. Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss declined fiscal year primarily due decline stock-based compensation expense, increase product revenue, and decline acquisition intangibles amortization. The reduction operating loss was partially offset net increase sales and marketing expense driven incremental headcount and marketing costs the SMS& organization. addition, there has been increase marketing and product development investments our portfolio business solutions. The operating loss for fiscal year increased from fiscal year due increase stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year , partially offset increase revenue and lower operating expenses including $ million lower intangibles amortization costs. Microsoft Business Solutions expects continued revenue growth through its portfolio business solutions and related product releases, including newer applications such Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting and Microsoft CRM. Continued investment the next generation solutions, broader geographical coverage, and plans for facilitating our partners provide customized vertical solutions should result improved business performance for Microsoft Business Solutions fiscal year . MSN ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ % $ % MSN includes personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN also provides variety online paid services addition MSN Internet Access and MSN Premium Web Services. Revenue derived primarily from advertisers MSN, from consumers and partners through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, and from subscribers MSN Narrowband Internet Access. fiscal year , launched new version our MSN Search engine, which based our own technology. This change will help provide the ability innovate more quickly and the opportunity develop long-term competitive advantage search. addition the launch MSN Search, introduced many new products and product enhancements fiscal year , including new version the MSN home page which provides richer user experience, quicker load times, higher levels end user customization, and fewer advertisements and links. MSN launched the clarity advertising program fiscal year , which removed paid advertising from inclusion search results and resulted reduced number advertisements that are returned with search results. fiscal year , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % primarily result industry and market growth, and continued growth MSN display advertising revenue, tempered the search clarity PAGE Part Item advertising program and the impact the home page redesign. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet Access increased $ million % fiscal year result growth the number MSN Premium subscribers through our carrier partnerships. Offsetting the overall revenue growth was decline $ million % Internet Access revenue, driven the continued migration Internet Access subscribers broadband other competitively priced Internet service providers. the end the current fiscal year, MSN had million internet access subscribers and million total subscribers compared million and million the end the previous year. addition, MSN has over million unique users monthly, over million active Hotmail accounts, and over million active Messenger accounts. fiscal year , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % result growth paid search and growth the overall Internet advertising market. This increase was partially offset decline $ million % Internet Access revenue. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet Access increased $ million. fiscal year , MSN operating income increased mainly due decrease stock-based compensation expense, reduced online operations and bandwidth costs associated with the Internet Access business the number subscribers declines, and increased advertising and subscription revenue. The operating income increase was partially offset increase headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits, and $ million tax benefit recorded the first quarter fiscal year . MSN reached profitability the first quarter fiscal year and was profitable for fiscal year . The improvement profitability fiscal year was primarily driven increase revenue, decline customer acquisition costs and other expenses related the Internet Access business, efficiency gains the operations the advertising and subscription businesses, and $ million refund previous year taxes, partially offset increase stock-based compensation expense. MSN expects increased growth advertising revenue benefits from improvements its advertising platform and search engine and continued increases Internet spending. expect revenue from narrowband Internet Access continue decline fiscal year . Profitability may decline fiscal year investments are made the development new applications and services, the search and search monetization platform, and growth the field sales force. MSN may from time time continue make investments improving the user experience and some cases, the number advertisements delivered either via our search tools via our Internet portals may reduced improve the overall user experience thereby helping sustain and grow our user base. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint Mobile and Embedded Devices have been moved MSN. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN reported results. Mobile and Embedded Devices ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) % $ ( ) % Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile \x99 software, Windows Embedded operating systems, MapPoint  , and Windows Automotive. These products extend the advantages the Windows platform mobile devices such PDAs, phones, and wide range embedded devices. The business also responsible for managing sales and customer relationships for Microsoft overall with device manufacturers and communication sector customers. The communication sector includes network service providers (such wireless, wireline and cable operators), and media and entertainment companies. The market for products these segments intensely competitive. Competitive alternatives vary based product lines and include product offerings from commercial and non-commercial mobile operating system providers, and proprietary software developed OEMs and mobile operators. Short product lifecycles product lines such Windows Mobile software may impact our continuing revenue streams. Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue growth for fiscal year was primarily due unit volume increases all major product lines, especially Windows Mobile software sales and Windows Embedded operating systems. Increased revenue for Windows Mobile software was primarily driven increased market demand for connected mobile devices such phone-enabled PDAs and Smartphones, and strong growth volume shipments for PAGE Part Item standalone PDAs. The increase Windows Embedded revenue was due our operating system being included new product designs for both new and existing customers. Mobile and Embedded Devices also benefited from the increased demand for -line mapping and the introduction new MapPoint finished goods products. This new functionality resulted increased unit sales for Mobile, Embedded, and MapPoint product categories. fiscal year , revenue for Windows Mobile software increased $ million %, revenue for Windows Embedded operating systems increased $ million % and revenue for MapPoint and Windows Automotive increased $ million %. Mobile and Embedded Devices realized positive increases customer satisfaction ratings from both mobile operator partners and the developer community. fiscal year , Mobile and Embedded Devices released Windows Mobile which the latest version our mobile operating software. Unit volume increases drove revenue growth for fiscal year over fiscal year all major product lines. The growth was primarily due the increased number OEMs and mobile operators shipping Windows Mobile software for Smartphones, increases market share for our Pocket and embedded products and increased usage existing customers our MapPoint Web Service. Mobile and Embedded Devices operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due decrease stock-based compensation expense. The growth revenue and reduction sales and marketing expense also contributed improved operating results this period compared the previous year. This improvement has been partially offset increased salary and benefit costs from increased hiring and increased investment research and development. The Mobile and Embedded Devices operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due growth revenue and lower marketing expenses, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . Mobile and Embedded Devices committed continuing product innovation meet the growing needs our customers and partners. will continue invest research and development and sales and marketing develop and market evolving software solutions. fiscal year expect bring added functionality the Windows Mobile platform through the Windows Mobile Messaging and Security Feature Pack and the Exchange Server Service Pack . This solution enables business users easily stay connected their Microsoft Office Outlook Mobile information and helps businesses better protect device data. expect sales for Mobile and Embedded Devices continue grow fiscal year . The growth anticipated driven overall increase customer demand for connectivity, and increase the number new devices being offered OEMs and mobile operators incorporating Windows Mobile software and Windows Embedded operating systems. Growth also anticipated due strong focus increasing segment share the connected device space working with our partners bring market strong portfolio Smartphone and mobile computing devices. addition, are focused bringing market applications and services the Windows Mobile platform that fulfill our customers desire for personalized communication devices. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint Mobile and Embedded Devices have been moved MSN. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN reported results. Home and Entertainment ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% $ ( ) % Home and Entertainment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products for the interactive television industry. The success video game consoles determined console functionality, the portfolio video game content for the console, and the market share the console. Revenue and unit volumes have grown quickly since entered the market and have established ourselves one the market leaders. believe our competitive position and revenue bolstered our increasing software game attach rates, which provides higher margins offset the declining prices consoles sold. Xbox consoles have negative gross margins. Home and Entertainment revenue increased fiscal year primarily due significant new product launches, which resulted $ million % increase Xbox revenue. the second quarter fiscal year , PAGE Part Item introduced Halo , which generated over $ million revenue the fiscal year. Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games, and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software sales. fiscal year , Xbox revenue increased $ million % with $ million related higher Xbox software volumes and $ million due higher Xbox console volumes, partially offset $ million decline related price reductions Xbox consoles and software. Overall, Xbox console volumes sales increased % fiscal year compared fiscal year . Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software and gaming devices sales, partially offset the new release Mac Office. Home and Entertainment operating loss fiscal year decreased primarily due increase high margin Xbox software sales, lower Xbox console unit costs, the lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment recorded fiscal year , and decrease stock-based compensation expense. The decrease was partially offset increase costs associated with Xbox console development and launch efforts associated with . The increase operating loss fiscal year was primarily due $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year , increased sales negative margin consoles, and costs associated with Xbox console development efforts, partially offset increased Xbox and Mac Office software sales. The operating loss increase from fiscal year also included lower- -cost- -market adjustment approximately $ million related Xbox console inventory. expect operating expenses continue increase near the launch Xbox . result launch-related activities, expect our operating loss increase fiscal year . fiscal year , expect Xbox console unit volumes and revenue increase from fiscal year due launch the Xbox . fiscal year expect games revenue increase from fiscal year driven more new game titles. Corporate-Level Expenses ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Corporate-level Expenses $ , $ , % $ , ( )% Certain corporate-level expenses are not allocated our segments. Those expenses primarily include corporate operations related broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, certain research and development and other costs, and all litigation settlements and accrued legal contingencies. fiscal year , corporate-level expenses decreased primarily result reduction stock-based compensation expense and decreased corporate legal costs. Fiscal year legal costs were $ billion compared $ billion fiscal year . The legal costs both years were primarily related antitrust and competition law claims brought competitors, class actions behalf end users, and government regulatory bodies outside the United States. fiscal year , corporate-level expenses increased primarily due legal costs including $ billion charge for settlement with the Sun Microsystems, Inc., and the fine \x80 million ($ million) imposed the European Commission. addition, stock-based compensation increased $ million compared fiscal year . Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Cost revenue $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ( )ppt % ( )ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. PAGE Part Item addition decrease the cost revenue fiscal year due lower stock-based compensation expense, the cost revenue decreased due $ million reduction costs primarily associated with provisioning the MSN Internet Access business subscriptions declined and $ million reduction other product costs mainly due Xbox consoles cost efficiency Home and Entertainment, partially offset increased costs product support and consulting services costs. The increase fiscal year was primarily due increased product support and consulting services costs $ million, $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program, and lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment the fourth quarter fiscal year approximately $ million related the Xbox console, partially offset $ million decrease MSN online operations costs. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Research and development $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ppt % ( )ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Our research and development expenses decreased fiscal year due lower stock-based compensation expense. This expense decline was partially offset increase headcount-related costs associated with incremental hiring and product development costs associated with upcoming products, primarily the Xbox console and related games, SQL Server , Windows Vista, and product development Mobile and Embedded devices. The increase fiscal year was primarily due $ billion stock-based compensation expenses related the option transfer program and other headcount-related payroll and other employee costs associated with % increase research and development headcount from fiscal year . Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Sales and marketing $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % ( )ppt % ( )ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. For fiscal year , sales and marketing expense increased slightly due $ million higher headcount-related costs from hiring and salary increases; higher sales and marketing costs driven product planning, reseller marketing, and advertising campaign costs mainly related launch the \x93Start Something\x94 campaign; launch Halo ; and launch arrangements for Xbox . The increase was offset mainly reductions stock-based compensation expense. Sales and marketing costs increased fiscal year due $ million stock-based compensation expense related the option transfer program and other headcount-related costs related % increase sales and marketing headcount. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change General and administrative $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ppt % ( )ppt PAGE Part Item General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, and other administrative headcount; and legal costs and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses decreased fiscal year due lower legal costs and stock-based compensation expense, partially offset increase other headcount-related costs from new and existing employees $ million. fiscal year , our legal expenses were driven charges $ billion, nearly all which were for settlements certain antitrust claims with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs, and increases contingency reserves for anti-trust related claims. General and administrative costs increased fiscal year primarily due legal expenses including $ billion charges related the Sun Microsystems settlement, $ million fine imposed the European Commission, and other legal costs approximately $ million; $ million stock-based compensation expense related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year ; and other headcount-related costs. Investment Income The components investment income and other each full fiscal year are follows: ( millions) Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Dividends and interest income declined $ million fiscal year due the combination greater allocation funds lower yielding, more liquid asset classes preparation for the $ billion special dividend paid December , and lower portfolio balance following payment the special dividend. Net gains investments declined $ million fiscal year due primarily greater sales investments the previous fiscal year preparation for the special dividend paid December , . Net gains investments also include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ million fiscal year . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. Derivative instruments are used manage exposures interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates and facilitate portfolio diversification. Net derivative losses fiscal year were primarily related losses equity derivatives, interest rate derivatives, and foreign currency contracts. During fiscal year , losses related equity derivatives used economically hedge against decline equity prices were $ million and losses related interest rate derivatives were $ million. These losses were offset the combination realized gains sales securities and unrealized gains related increases the market value the underlying assets included component other comprehensive income. Net losses related foreign currency contracts were $ million, related part hedging anticipated foreign currency revenues while the . dollar generally declined against most currencies during the current fiscal year, and economically hedging foreign currency based investment exposures. Losses related hedging foreign currency-based investment exposures were offset unrealized gains the underlying assets. Net gains derivatives also included gains related commodity positions used provide portfolio diversification. Gains commodity positions were $ million during fiscal year . fiscal year , dividends and interest income decreased $ million mainly due lower dividend income resulting from the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares Comcast during fiscal year and declining interest rates, partly offset larger investment portfolio. Net gains investments include PAGE Part Item other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ billion fiscal year and higher net realized gains sales fiscal year moved more liquid investment asset classes. Net realized gains sales were $ billion fiscal year and $ billion fiscal year . The decline impairments was due improved market conditions. Derivative losses decreased $ million $ million fiscal year compared fiscal year primarily due the combined effects interest rate movements interest rate sensitive instruments and equity market price movements relative positions used hedge the fair value certain equity securities. Net losses equity investees and other for the previous periods were reclassified into investment income and other conform the current period presentation. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for the full fiscal year was % compared with % for fiscal year . The decreased rate for the full year resulted primarily from the reversal $ million previously accrued taxes upon settling Internal Revenue Service examination for fiscal years and recording tax benefit $ million generated the decision repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings under temporary incentive provided the American Jobs Creation Act . The effective tax rate for fiscal year was %. The fiscal year rate reflected benefit the second quarter $ million which resulted from the reversal previously accrued taxes that were related previous unfavorable Tax Court ruling, portions which were reversed the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals. Financial Condition Cash and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , compared $ billion June , . The decline primarily attributable the special dividend $ per share, $ billion, paid December , , and common stock repurchases million shares for $ billion during . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , compared $ billion June , . The investment portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency denominated positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. result the special dividend and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected impact our future ability operate pay dividends given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue attributable volume licensing programs, undelivered elements software licensing arrangements, and certain other services. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Other unearned revenue includes Services, Platform, Microsoft Business Solutions, and advertising and subscription services where have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Unearned revenue June , increased $ million from June , reflecting current period billings outpacing the recognition deferrals from multi-year licensing arrangements $ million and $ million increase primarily unearned revenue for services, MSN advertising and subscriptions, Xbox Live, platform, and Microsoft Business Solutions, partially offset $ million decline revenue deferred for undelivered elements. PAGE Part Item The following table outlines the expected recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , Thereafter , Unearned revenue $ , Cash Flows Cash flow from operations for fiscal year increased % $ billion due primarily increase cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth combined with % increase unearned revenue. Cash payments fiscal year resulting from significant legal settlements were approximately $ billion lower than the previous year, adding the overall increase operating cash flow. Partially offsetting these factors were increased payments employees resulting from % increase full-time employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , driven $ billion cash dividends paid fiscal year compared $ billion paid fiscal year . The increase was also partially driven $ billion cash used for common stock repurchases, increase $ billion cash used for share repurchases compared the previous year, reflecting million shares repurchased fiscal year , increase million shares compared the previous year. Net cash from investing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year , primarily due $ billion increase investment maturities that occurred fund cash dividends paid fiscal year , partially offset $ billion decrease cash from combined investment purchase and sale activity. Cash flow from operations for fiscal year decreased $ billion $ billion. The decrease primarily reflects the combined cash outflows $ billion related the Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven the rise revenue billings. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from the previous year. The decrease reflects that did not repurchase common stock the fourth quarter fiscal year combined with $ million increase primarily from stock issuances related employee stock options exercises, partially offset $ million increase cash dividends paid. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year . Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year . The increase primarily reflects the rise cash receipts from customers driven the increase revenue billings and maintenance relatively stable accounts receivable levels. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ million from the previous year. The increase reflects cash dividend payment $ million and increase $ million common stock repurchased, offsetting $ million received from common stock issued. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year , due stronger portfolio performance sold and matured investments. have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling, $ million, $ million and $ million fiscal year , and , respectively. have issued residual value guarantees connection with various operating leases. These guarantees provide that not purchase the leased property from the PAGE Part Item lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. fiscal year , our Board Directors approved $ per share cash dividends, with $ paid June , . quarterly dividend $ per share ( approximately $ million) was approved our Board Directors June , paid shareholders record August , September , . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without previous notice. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change stockholders\x92 equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion our common stock under this plan. believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements, quarterly dividends and planned share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements June , , had guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company. The total amount these guarantees was approximately $ million. Effective December , , the guarantees were terminated. provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, interpreted FASB Interpretation . (FIN) . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period Fiscal Years - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( ) \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ , PAGE Part Item ( ) have excluded the $ billion contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred the third paragraph Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Purchase commitments represent obligations under agreements which are not unilaterally cancelable , are legally enforceable, and specify fixed minimum amounts quantities goods services fixed minimum prices. generally require purchase orders for vendor and third-party spending. The amount presented above purchase commitments includes analysis all known contracts exceeding $ million the aggregate and all known open purchase orders. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded unearned revenue $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above these will not settled cash. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS November , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Inventory Costs , which clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material. SFAS . will effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June , . not believe the adoption SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , Exchanges Nonmonetary Assets , which eliminates the exception for nonmonetary exchanges similar productive assets and replaces with general exception for exchanges nonmonetary assets that not have commercial substance. SFAS . will effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring fiscal periods beginning after June , . not believe the adoption SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment , which establishes standards for transactions which entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods services. This standard requires issuer measure the cost employee services received exchange for award equity instruments based the grant-date fair value the award. This eliminates the exception account for such awards using the intrinsic method previously allowable under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . . March , the SEC released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Share-Based Payment, which expresses views the SEC Staff about the application SFAS . ( ). April the SEC issued rule that SFAS . ( ) will effective for annual reporting periods beginning after June , . previously adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , July , and restated previous periods that time for all awards granted employees after July , . Accordingly believe SFAS . ( ) will not have material impact our financial statements; however, continue assess the potential impact that the adoption SFAS . ( ) will have the classification tax deductions for stock-based compensation our statements cash flows. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, accounting for income taxes, and accounting for stock-based compensation. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. Customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the PAGE Part Item ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and SEC SAB , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. PAGE Part Item , account for stock-based compensation accordance with the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value stock-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term stock options, the expected volatility our stock and expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount stock-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could materially impacted. ', 'item 7a. ': '', 'item 8. ': 'Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\x94 and \x93Item . Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results Operations \x96 Critical Accounting Policies\x94 this report. operate global business that exposes additional risks. operate over countries and significant part our revenue comes from international sales. Pressure make our pricing structure uniform might require that reduce the sales price our software the United States and other countries. Operations outside the United States may affected changes trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes regulatory requirements for software; social, political, labor, economic conditions specific country region; and difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. While hedge portion our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations exchange rates between the . dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our future net revenues. General economic and geo-political risks may affect our revenue and profitability. Softness corporate information technology spending other changes general economic conditions that affect demand for computer hardware software could adversely affect our revenue. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity and armed conflict pose risk general economic disruption affected countries generally and could require changes our operations and security arrangements, thus increasing our operating costs. These conditions may lend additional uncertainty the timing and budget for technology investment decisions our customers. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. are highly automated business and disruption failure our systems the event major earthquake, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, other catastrophic event could cause delays completing sales and providing services. Our corporate headquarters, significant portion our research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located the Seattle, Washington area, and have other business operations the Silicon Valley area California, both which are near major PAGE Part Item earthquake faults. catastrophic event that results the destruction disruption any our critical business information technology systems could severely affect our ability conduct normal business operations and, result, our future operating results could adversely affected. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have adverse effect our business. expect continue making acquisitions entering into joint ventures part our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that don\x92 realize satisfactory return the investment make, that may experience difficulty the integration new employees, business systems and technology, diversion management\x92 attention from our other businesses. These factors could adversely affect our operating results financial condition. have limited insurance. maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks property loss. Because the unavailability high cost conventional insurance arrangements, have entered into captive insurance arrangements for the purpose protecting against possible catastrophic and other risks not covered traditional insurance markets. June , , the face value captive insurance arrangements was $ billion. Actual value any particular time will vary due deductibles, exclusions, other restrictions, and claims. While believe these arrangements are effective way insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with the risks discussed this report other events could exceed the coverage provided such arrangements. Other risks that may affect our business. Other factors that may affect our performance may include: \x95 sales channel disruption, such the bankruptcy major distributor; \x95 our ability implement operating cost structures that align with revenue growth; and \x95 the continued availability third-party distribution channels for MSN service and other online services. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers August , were follows: Name Age Position with the Company William . Gates III Chairman the Board and Chief Software Architect Steven . Ballmer Chief Executive Officer James . Allchin Group Vice President, Platforms Group Robert . (Robbie) Bach Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment Lisa Brummel Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Douglas . Burgum Senior Vice President, Microsoft Business Solutions David . Cole Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services Group Jean-Philippe Courtois Senior Vice President; President, Microsoft International . Scott Valerio Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer Kevin . Johnson Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services Christopher . Liddell Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer Michelle (Mich) Mathews Senior Vice President, Marketing Craig . Mundie Senior Vice President; Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy Jeffrey . Raikes Group Vice President, Information Worker Business Eric . Rudder Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business Bradford . Smith Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary . Gates -founded Microsoft and served its Chief Executive Officer from the time the original partnership was incorporated until January , when resigned Chief Executive Officer and assumed the position Chief Software Architect. . Gates has served Chairman since our incorporation. PAGE Part Item . Ballmer was named Chief Executive Officer and director the Company January . served President from July February . Previously, had served Executive Vice President, Sales and Support since February . joined Microsoft . . Allchin was named Group Vice President, Platforms December . had been Senior Vice President, Platforms since March . was previously Senior Vice President, Personal and Business Systems since February . . Allchin joined Microsoft . . Bach was named Senior Vice President, Home and Entertainment March . had been Vice President, Home and Retail since March . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Learning, Entertainment and Productivity, and Vice President, Desktop Applications Marketing since . . Bach joined Microsoft . . Brummel was named Corporate Vice President, Human Resources April . Previous this position she had been Corporate Vice President the Home and Retail Division. She joined Microsoft . . Burgum joined the Company Senior Vice President upon Microsoft\x92 acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. April . Previous the acquisition, had served the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Great Plains. joined Great Plains . . Cole was named Senior Vice President, MSN and Personal Services November . Before holding that position, had been Senior Vice President, Services Platform Division since August . had been Senior Vice President, Consumer Services since December and Vice President, Consumer Windows since March . Previously, was Vice President, Web Client and Consumer Experience and Vice President, Internet Client and Collaboration. . Cole joined Microsoft . . Courtois was named Senior Vice President, President Microsoft International June . had been Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since March . Previous that, had been Senior Vice President and President, Microsoft Europe, Middle East, and Africa since July . Before holding that position, had been Vice President, Worldwide Customer Marketing since July . . Courtois joined Microsoft . . Valerio was named Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer May . has served Corporate Vice President and Corporate Controller since April . Before joining Microsoft, . Valerio was the Vice President Corporate Controllership The Walt Disney Company from January April . Before joining Disney, . Valerio was the Chief Financial Officer Mindwave Software Inc. from May October . Prior going Mindwave, . Valerio spent years with PricewaterhouseCoopers. . Johnson was named Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services March . had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February . . Johnson had been Senior Vice President, . Sales, Marketing, and Services since August , and before that Vice President, . Sales, Marketing and Services. joined Microsoft . . Liddell was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer May . . Liddell served Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer International Paper Company since March , and prior becoming Chief Financial Officer, held the positions Vice President, Finance and Controller. . Liddell held leadership positions International Paper and its New Zealand affiliate Carter Holt Harvey Limited for the ten years prior joining Microsoft. . Liddell served Chief Executive Officer Carter Holt Harvey Limited from and Chief Financial Officer from . . Mathews was named Senior Vice President, Marketing May . Before holding her current position, . Mathews had been Corporate Vice President, Marketing since August and Vice President Corporate Public Relations since . . Mathews joined Microsoft . . Mundie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer, Advanced Strategies and Policy August . was named Senior Vice President, Consumer Platforms February . joined Microsoft . . Raikes was named Group Vice President, Information Worker Business June . had been Group Vice President, Productivity and Business Services since August . . Raikes had been Group Vice President, Sales and Support since July . . Raikes joined Microsoft . . Rudder was named Senior Vice President, Server and Tools Business June . Previous assuming that role, was responsible for managing Developer and Platform Evangelism. . Rudder joined Microsoft . . Smith was named Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary November . . Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer effective July . had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based Paris. joined Microsoft . PAGE Part Item , , , EMPLOYEES June , , employed approximately , people full-time basis, , the United States and , internationally. the total, , were product research and development, , sales and marketing, , product support and consulting services, , manufacturing and distribution, and , general and administration. Our success highly dependent our ability attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for employees intense the software industry. believe have been successful our efforts recruit qualified employees, but cannot guarantee that will continue successful the future. None our employees are subject collective bargaining agreements. believe that our relationship with our employees excellent. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address www microsoft com. There make available, free charge, our annual report Form - , quarterly reports Form - , current reports Form - , and any amendments those reports, soon reasonably practicable after electronically file such material with furnish the SEC. Our SEC reports can accessed through the investor relations section our Web site. The information found our Web site not part this any other report file with furnish the SEC. ITEM . PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist approximately million square feet office building space located King County, Washington: million square feet owned space that situated slightly more than acres owned land our corporate campus and approximately million square feet leased. own approximately , square feet office building space domestically (outside the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately million square feet office building space. occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately million square feet that leased and approximately , square feet that owned. These facilities include our European Operations Center that leases , square-foot campus Dublin, Ireland, , square-foot disk duplication facility Humacao, Puerto Rico, and , square-foot facility Singapore for our Asia Pacific Operations Center and Regional headquarters. Leased office building space includes the following locations: Tokyo, Japan , square feet; Unterschleissheim, Germany , square feet; Les Ulis, France , square feet; Reading, England , square feet; and Mississauga, Canada , square feet. addition the above, have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, described \x93Operations\x94 above. May , the Redmond, Washington City Council approved our proposed development agreement, which establishes the framework under which can develop additional million square feet facilities our main campus. also own acres land Issaquah, Washington, which can accommodate million square feet office space. Our facilities are fully used for current operations all segments, and suitable additional space available accommodate expansion needs. ITEM . LEGAL PROCEEDINGS July , , announced settlement with IBM resolving claims asserted IBM that arose from the circumstances United States . Microsoft and findings fact that identified IBM having been impacted its business practices which the . . District Court ruled against , and claims related IBM\x92 and SmartSuite businesses. Under the agreement, paid IBM $ million and extended $ million credit for IBM\x92 internal deployment Microsoft software. IBM released all antitrust claims against based past conduct except for claims related its server business which IBM will not sue for least two years. See Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding other legal proceedings which are involved. ITEM . SUBMISSION MATTERS VOTE SECURITY HOLDERS matters were submitted vote security holders during the fourth quarter fiscal year . PAGE Part Item PART ITEM . MARKET FOR REGISTRANT\x92 COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock traded The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. August , , there were , registered holders record our common stock. The high and low common stock prices per share were follows: Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Year Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low Fiscal year Common stock price per share: High $ $ $ $ $ Low September , our Board Directors declared common stock dividend $ per share, which was paid November . That was the only dividend declared paid fiscal year . See Note \x96 Stockholders\x92 Equity the Notes Financial Statements (Item ) for information regarding dividends approved our Board Directors fiscal year . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without prior notice. repurchased common stock each quarter fiscal year follows: Period Total number shares purchased Average price paid per share July , \x96 September , , , $ October , \x96 December , , , $ January , \x96 March , , , $ April , \x96 June , , , $ Common stock repurchases the fourth quarter fiscal year were follows: Period ( ) Total number shares purchased ( ) Average price paid per share ( ) Total number shares purchased part publicly announced plans programs ( ) Maximum number shares ( approximate dollar value) shares that may yet purchased under the plans programs ( millions) April , \x96 April , , , $ , , $ , May , \x96 May , , , $ , , $ , June , \x96 June , , , $ , , $ , , , , , PAGE Part Item ITEM . SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS ( millions, except per share data) Fiscal Year Ended June ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Operating income , , , , , Income before accounting change , , , , , Net income , , , , , Diluted earnings per share before accounting change $ $ $ $ $ Diluted earnings per share $ $ $ $ $ Cash dividends declared per share $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ $ Cash and short-term investments , , , , , Total assets , , , , , Long-term obligations , , , , , Stockholders\x92 equity , , , , , ( ) The financial data presented reflects stock-based compensation expense except fiscal year , prescribed Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure and amendment FASB Statement . , reflect the retroactive adoption the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation discussed Note . fiscal year had been restated, the operating income and net income would have been $ , million and $ , million. ( ) Fiscal year includes unfavorable cumulative effect accounting change $ million $ per diluted share, reflecting the adoption SFAS . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Fiscal year also includes the acquisition Great Plains Software, Inc. for approximately $ billion stock. ( ) Fiscal year includes $ billion (pre-tax) gain the sale Expedia, Inc. ( ) Fiscal year includes the acquisition Navision , Rare Ltd. and Placeware, Inc. for total $ billion cash and $ million stock and other consideration. PAGE Part Item ITEM . MANAGEMENT\x92 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OPERATIONS RESULTS OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS , , AND OVERVIEW The following Management\x92 Discussion and Analysis ( & ) intended help the reader understand the results operations and financial condition Microsoft Corporation. & provided supplement , and should read conjunction with our financial statements and the accompanying notes the financial statements (Notes). develop, manufacture, license, and support wide range software products for many computing devices. Our software products include operating systems for servers, PCs, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; and software development tools. provide consulting and product support services, and train and certify system integrators and developers. sell the Xbox video game console and games, games, and peripherals. Online communication and information services are delivered through our MSN portals and channels around the world. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest the second quarter our fiscal year due corporate calendar year-end spending trends our major markets and holiday season spending consumers. Our Home and Entertainment segment particularly subject seasonality its products are aimed the consumer market and are highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Historically, approximately % % Home and Entertainment revenue has been generated the second fiscal quarter. believe the seasonality revenue likely continue the future. intend sustain the long-term growth our businesses through technological innovation, engineering excellence, and commitment delivering high-quality products and services customers and partners. Recognizing that one our primary challenges help accelerate worldwide adoption and software upgrades, continue advance the functionality, security, and value Windows operating systems, including versions for new devices such Tablet PCs, Media Center PCs, Portable Media Centers, and mobile devices such Smartphones. are also increasing our focus emerging markets and reducing the amount unlicensed software those markets. addition, develop innovative software applications and solutions enhance the productivity information workers, improve communication and collaboration work groups, aid business intelligence, and streamline processes for small and mid-sized businesses. sustain the growth our Server and Tools business amid competition from other vendors both proprietary and open source software, our goal deliver products that provide the best platform for network computing \x96 the most advanced, easiest deploy and manage and most secure \x96 with the lowest total cost ownership. take advantage new market opportunities, continue invest research and development existing and new lines business, such services for consumers, businesses and large enterprises that believe can contribute significantly our long-term growth. also research and develop advanced technologies for future software products. Delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our integrated platform the key meeting customer needs and our future growth. believe that over the last few years have laid foundation for long-term growth delivering innovative new products, creating opportunity for partners, improving customer satisfaction with key audiences, putting some our most significant legal cases behind , and improving our internal business processes. Our focus fiscal year building this foundation and executing well key areas, including continuing innovate our integrated software platform, delivering compelling value propositions customers, responding effectively customer and partner needs, and continuing focus internally product excellence, business efficacy, and accountability across the company. Key market opportunities include: \x95 Growth our anchor businesses through forthcoming innovations and new product launches and making inroads against software piracy. \x95 Expanding our innovation portfolio offering extensions our technologies targeted towards specific customer needs \x96 either new products higher-value versions existing products. \x95 Delivering software services through online consumer services and services for businesses that enable workers collaborate interactively. PAGE Part Item Worldwide macroeconomic factors have strong correlation business and consumer demand for our software, services, games and Internet service offerings. expect that general macroeconomic trends will remain stable experience slight improvement fiscal year compared fiscal year . Our optimism balanced recent data which revealed slight downward revisions when compared previous forecasts for Gross Domestic Product growth the ., United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan and Latin America. The leading indicators were also revised slightly lower for the major markets. Additionally, recent surveys chief information officers also reflect slight downward revisions expected corporate spend budgets and short-term purchase intent. open source software development and distribution evolves, continue seek differentiate our products from competitive products based open source software. believe that Microsoft\x92 share server unit operating systems held steady fiscal year , while Linux distributions rose slightly faster absolute basis. Summary ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , ( )% $ , % Our revenue growth for fiscal year was driven growth licensing Windows Server \x99 operating systems and other server applications, licensing Windows  Client operating systems through OEMs, and increased licensing Office and other Information Worker products. The license revenue growth resulted from growth server hardware and shipments, fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates, and overall improvements spending. The November launch the \x93Halo  \x94 Xbox game also contributed the overall revenue growth for the company. Based our preliminary estimates, worldwide shipments from all sources grew about % % and total server hardware shipments grew approximately % % during fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive , primarily due relative strengthening most foreign currencies, particularly the euro and Japanese yen, against the . dollar. Had the exchange rates from the previous year been effect fiscal year , translated international revenue growth earned local currencies would have been approximately $ million two percentage points lower for fiscal year . hedge portion our international currency exposures, thereby reducing our overall exposure. Fluctuations foreign currency exchange rates have greater impact non-OEM commercial and retail license business significant portion those product revenues are denominated foreign currencies. The vast majority OEM license revenue denominated . dollars. Partially offsetting revenue growth rates was $ billion decline earned revenue from Upgrade Advantage fiscal year . The Upgrade Advantage contract value reached its expiration dates the first quarter fiscal year . This revenue was recognized over fiscal year and fiscal year and the first quarter fiscal year when the contract period expired. Revenue growth fiscal year was primarily driven the growth licensing Windows Client operating systems through OEMs, Windows Server operating systems, Office and other server applications result growth and server hardware shipments. The worldwide shipment growth rate from all sources was estimated % and the Windows server shipment was estimated % fiscal year compared fiscal year . The net impact foreign exchange rates revenue was positive fiscal year due relative strengthening most foreign currencies versus the . dollar. This resulted approximately $ billion growth total revenue. Revenue growth fiscal year was driven primarily multi-year licensing that occurred before the Licensing transition date the first quarter fiscal year . The fiscal year revenue growth also reflected $ million % increase associated with OEM licensing Windows operating systems and $ million % increase revenue from Xbox video game consoles. For fiscal year , the operating income increase was driven decline stock-based compensation expense; increased revenue Server and Tools, Client and Information Worker, which have higher gross margins compared other segments; and reduction legal costs associated with major litigation. addition, strong sales Halo reduced the overall operating loss for the Home and Entertainment segment for fiscal year . The $ billion decrease stock-based compensation expense was partially offset increased operating expenses $ million related increased salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. General and administrative expenses related major litigation declined fiscal year due the $ billion charges related the PAGE Part Item settlement Sun Microsystems litigation and the fine imposed the European Commission fiscal year . This effect was partially offset legal expenses $ billion related settlements with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs resolve antitrust issues and other matters. fiscal year , the operating income decline was caused primarily $ billion legal charges and $ billion stock-based compensation expense related our employee stock option transfer program, mainly offset increase revenue. fiscal year , the growth operating income reflected increase revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses related employee and related costs associated with headcount and increased legal settlement expenses, primarily the Time Warner settlement charge $ million. fiscal year , implemented changes employee compensation whereby employees are granted stock awards rather than stock options. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year which employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher JPMorgan. The unvested options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. total million the million eligible options were transferred, which resulted additional stock-based compensation expense $ billion the second quarter fiscal year . result these changes, expect stock-based compensation expense continue decrease for least the next three fiscal years. The following table shows total stock-based compensation expense segment and income statement classification for fiscal years , and . ( millions) Increase/ (Decrease) Increase/ (Decrease) Client $ $ $ $ $ ( ) Server and Tools , , ( , ) Information Worker ( ) Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) MSN ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) Corporate , ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) Cost revenue ( ) Research and development , , , , ( , ) Sales and marketing , , ( ) General and administrative ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , $ , $ ( , ) fiscal year , expect revenue grow higher rate than fiscal year , mainly due the launches new products. expect higher revenue growth fiscal year compared fiscal year Home and Entertainment primarily driven the launch Xbox . estimate worldwide shipments will grow between % % and worldwide server unit shipments will grow between % % fiscal year compared fiscal year . not expect benefit from year-over-year foreign currency exchange rates fiscal year . expect our operating income growth rate fiscal year exceed our revenue growth rate. Operating income expected reflect lower operating expenses due lower costs for legal settlements than incurred fiscal year and reduction stock-based compensation expense. The operating loss for Home and Entertainment expected increase fiscal year driven the launch and investments Xbox . SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) Our seven segments are Client; Server and Tools; Information Worker; Microsoft Business Solutions; MSN; Mobile and Embedded Devices; and Home and Entertainment. The revenue and operating income/(loss) amounts this section are presented basis consistent with . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and include certain reconciling items attributable each the PAGE Part Item segments. The segment information appearing Note \x96 Segment Information the Notes Financial Statements presented basis consistent with the Company\x92 internal management reporting, accordance with SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information . Certain corporate level expenses have been excluded from our segment operating results and are analyzed separately. Fiscal years and amounts have been restated for certain internal reorganizations and conform the current period presentation including reclassifying certain legal settlements from business segments corporate-level expense. Client ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Client includes revenue from Windows Professional and Home, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems. Client revenue growth correlated with the growth corporate and consumer purchases PCs from OEMs that pre-install versions Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for over % total Client revenue. The operating results for all periods presented have been restated reflect the reorganization the Windows Security group from Server and Tools Client. Client revenue increased fiscal year driven % growth OEM license units and $ million % growth OEM revenue from increased unit shipments, partially offset $ million % decrease revenue from commercial and retail licensing Windows operating systems. This channel-mix shift reflects our customers\x92 continued preference for upgrading their operating systems through the OEM channel when they replace their PCs versus the purchase multi-year licensing agreement. The mix OEM Windows operating systems licensed with premium edition operating systems percentage total OEM Windows operating systems licensed during the year remained flat % total OEM Windows operating systems compared the previous year. Revenue earned from Upgrade Advantage declined $ million fiscal year contributing the decrease commercial and retail licensing revenue. The differences between unit growth rates and revenue growth rates from year year are affected the mix premium versions operating systems licensed during the year, changes the geographical mix, the channel mix products sold large, multi-national OEMs versus those sold local and regional system builders, and previous changes deferral rates and product lives for undelivered elements unearned revenue. Client revenue increase fiscal year was driven % growth OEM licenses and % growth OEM revenue increased consumer unit shipments the first half the fiscal year and growth business unit shipments the second half fiscal year . Client operating income increased fiscal year primarily due increase OEM revenue and decrease stock-based compensation expense. These factors were partially offset increase sales and marketing expenses associated with \x93Start Something,\x94 globally launched advertising campaign, marketing for security initiatives, and increase salary and benefits for new and existing headcount. The additional headcount for research and development was primarily devoted the continued development the Windows Client next-generation operating system. The operating income for fiscal year has been restated for reclassification legal settlement charges totaling $ million from Client corporate expenses conform the current year presentation. Client operating income increased for fiscal year compared fiscal year mainly due growth revenue, partially offset increased operating expenses primarily related stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . anticipate that worldwide shipments will grow approximately % % fiscal year , continuing influence our growth Client revenue. addition, estimate that increasing shipments laptops percentage total systems will continue positively influence Client revenue growth due shorter replacement cycles for laptops. The time between operating system releases may affect our ability close some multi-year licensing agreements. expect growth rates emerging markets continue outpace mature market growth rates. Piracy continues challenge both emerging and mature markets. intend focus growing OEM licenses faster than the overall market reducing piracy, particularly the mature markets, through initiatives such Windows Genuine Advantage. Client commercial and retail licensing revenues are expected continue lag behind overall Client revenue growth, but expect see improvements these channels fiscal year compared fiscal year . anticipate modest increase our premium product mix fiscal year , although PAGE Part Item anticipate shipments the premium-priced Media Center Edition will grow percentage the total operating system shipments. Major investments fiscal year will focus development Windows Vista, the next-generation operating system, and will include marketing initiatives such the global \x93Start Something\x94 campaign. Server and Tools ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Server and Tools consists server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server  , Exchange Server, and other server products. also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server and Tools concentrates licensing products, applications, tools, content, and services that make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. The segment uses multiple channels for licensing including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly end customers. The licenses are sold both one-time licenses and multi-year volume licenses depending upon the needs different customers. Server and Tools uses product innovation and partnerships with information technology professionals drive the adoption and sales growth its products. Server and Tools growth driven performance the overall market for information technology \x96 both hardware and software. The operating results for previous years have been restated for the reorganization the Windows Security group from Server and Tools Client and the reorganization Professional product support services from Information Worker Server and Tools. Server and Tools revenue growth fiscal year was mainly driven growth Server and Server application revenue, including CAL revenue, which grew $ billion % fiscal year reflecting broad adoption Windows Server System \x99 products, including Windows Server, SQL Server, Exchange Server, and Management Servers. estimate that overall server hardware shipments grew % % during fiscal year and that Windows-based server shipments grew comparable rate for the same period. Consulting and Premier and Professional product support services revenue increased $ million % compared the previous year, primarily due increased consultant utilization and new Premier customers. Foreign currency exchange rate changes accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points total Server and Tools revenue growth, which was offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage revenue earned. fiscal year , Server and Server applications revenue, including CAL revenue, grew $ billion %. Foreign currency exchange rates contributed approximately $ million five percentage points Server and Tools revenue growth fiscal year compared fiscal year . Consulting and Premier product support services revenue increased $ million % compared fiscal year due increased customer penetration from new product offerings. Server and Tools operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due increase revenue and decrease stock-based compensation expense. This was partially offset increase sales and marketing costs and headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits. Operating income for the previous year has been restated for reclassification $ billion legal settlements from Server and Tools corporate expenses conform the current year presentation. Server and Tools operating income for fiscal year increased slightly due the revenue increase offset increased stock-based compensation charges, including $ million related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . expect worldwide server hardware shipments grow % % fiscal year . However, face strong competition from Linux-based, Unix, and other server operating systems. anticipate little year-over-year foreign currency exchange rate impacts fiscal year . also expect Server and Tools operating expenses increase during fiscal year due expected investment headcount and new marketing initiatives and upcoming product releases, including SQL Server and Visual Studio . PAGE Part Item Information Worker ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income $ , $ , % $ , % Information Worker consists the Microsoft Office System programs, servers, services, and solutions designed increase personal, team, and organization productivity. Information Worker includes Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio  , SharePoint  Portal Server CALs, and other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting  and OneNote  . Most revenue from this segment comes from licensing our Office System products. Revenue growth depends the ability add value the core Office product set and expand our product offerings other information worker areas such document lifecycle management, collaboration, and business intelligence. Beginning fiscal year , the Small and Mid-Market Solutions & Partners (SMS& ) organization, which was historically part Information Worker, was -aligned Microsoft Business Solutions. result this change, Information Worker results have been restated reflect the reclassification the SMS& organization Microsoft Business Solutions. The results for previous periods have also been restated due the reclassification Professional product support services from Information Worker into Server and Tools. Information Worker revenue increased fiscal year primarily due % $ million increase volume licensing, retail packaged product, and pre-installed versions Office Japan, % $ million increase OEM revenue, and the impact foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset reduced Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Changes foreign currency exchange rates accounted for approximately $ million three percentage points the revenue growth for fiscal year compared the previous fiscal year, offset $ million decline Upgrade Advantage earned revenue. Revenue growth for fiscal year from volume licensing, retail packaged product and pre-installed versions Office Japan was % aggregate. This increase was driven recognition unearned revenue primarily from large increase multi-year licenses signed previous the transition our Licensing programs and approximately $ million related the launch Office . OEM licensing revenue grew % $ million. Foreign currency exchange rates provided approximately $ million % total Information Worker revenue growth. Information Worker operating income growth for fiscal year was primarily due the revenue growth and decrease stock-based compensation expense. Operating expenses were also impacted reduction marketing campaign costs from the previous period associated with the launch Office . This decline was offset increase headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits. Information Worker operating income fiscal year increased from the previous year primarily due growth revenue, partially offset increase operating expenses, primarily related $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year and higher sales and marketing expenses. The revenue growth rate for Information Worker expected higher fiscal year than fiscal year . expect sustained momentum our OEM and multi-year licensing offerings and increased purchasing Office System enterprises complete their product evaluations. expect see slowing revenue from packaged product late the year approach the next version launch. anticipate little year-over-year foreign currency exchange rate benefit fiscal year . Microsoft Business Solutions ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) ( )% $ ( ) % Microsoft Business Solutions provides integrated and adaptable business management software solutions optimized for small and mid-sized businesses, large organizations and divisions global enterprises. Microsoft Business Solutions products are developed deliver affordable and rich functionality through adaptable software platform PAGE Part Item that works like and with other Microsoft technologies. The main products consist line business solutions, customer relationship management software, retail solutions, and related services. Revenue derived from software and services sales, with software sales representing significant amount total revenue. Software revenues include both new software licenses and enhancement plans, which provide customers with future software upgrades over the period the plan. Our solutions are delivered through worldwide network channel partners that provide specialized services and local support tailored customer needs. The market for Microsoft Business Solutions highly competitive, with few strong players the enterprise segment while the mid-market segment more fragmented. Microsoft Business Solutions now includes the SMS& organization, which previously had been included Information Worker. SMS& supports small and mid-market customers for Microsoft including Microsoft Business Solutions. Results have been restated reflect the reclassification SMS& for all periods presented. Also result the reorganization, the Microsoft Partner Program became component Microsoft Business Solutions. The increase Microsoft Business Solutions revenue fiscal year was mainly due % revenue growth software partially offset % decline services revenue, which resulted from encouraging our partners provide more these types services. The software revenue increase was driven % growth license revenue and % growth enhancement revenue compared the previous year, and attributed growth our line business solutions and customer relationship management solutions, and increased Microsoft Partner Program subscriptions. The revenue increase fiscal year was primarily attributable continued growth licensing Navision and Axapta line business solutions, new sales Microsoft CRM, and Microsoft Partner Program subscriptions. Microsoft Business Solutions operating loss declined fiscal year primarily due decline stock-based compensation expense, increase product revenue, and decline acquisition intangibles amortization. The reduction operating loss was partially offset net increase sales and marketing expense driven incremental headcount and marketing costs the SMS& organization. addition, there has been increase marketing and product development investments our portfolio business solutions. The operating loss for fiscal year increased from fiscal year due increase stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year , partially offset increase revenue and lower operating expenses including $ million lower intangibles amortization costs. Microsoft Business Solutions expects continued revenue growth through its portfolio business solutions and related product releases, including newer applications such Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting and Microsoft CRM. Continued investment the next generation solutions, broader geographical coverage, and plans for facilitating our partners provide customized vertical solutions should result improved business performance for Microsoft Business Solutions fiscal year . MSN ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating income (loss) $ ( ) $ % $ % MSN includes personal communications services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels around the world. MSN also provides variety online paid services addition MSN Internet Access and MSN Premium Web Services. Revenue derived primarily from advertisers MSN, from consumers and partners through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services, and from subscribers MSN Narrowband Internet Access. fiscal year , launched new version our MSN Search engine, which based our own technology. This change will help provide the ability innovate more quickly and the opportunity develop long-term competitive advantage search. addition the launch MSN Search, introduced many new products and product enhancements fiscal year , including new version the MSN home page which provides richer user experience, quicker load times, higher levels end user customization, and fewer advertisements and links. MSN launched the clarity advertising program fiscal year , which removed paid advertising from inclusion search results and resulted reduced number advertisements that are returned with search results. fiscal year , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % primarily result industry and market growth, and continued growth MSN display advertising revenue, tempered the search clarity PAGE Part Item advertising program and the impact the home page redesign. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet Access increased $ million % fiscal year result growth the number MSN Premium subscribers through our carrier partnerships. Offsetting the overall revenue growth was decline $ million % Internet Access revenue, driven the continued migration Internet Access subscribers broadband other competitively priced Internet service providers. the end the current fiscal year, MSN had million internet access subscribers and million total subscribers compared million and million the end the previous year. addition, MSN has over million unique users monthly, over million active Hotmail accounts, and over million active Messenger accounts. fiscal year , MSN advertising revenue increased $ million % result growth paid search and growth the overall Internet advertising market. This increase was partially offset decline $ million % Internet Access revenue. Revenue from subscription and transaction services other than Internet Access increased $ million. fiscal year , MSN operating income increased mainly due decrease stock-based compensation expense, reduced online operations and bandwidth costs associated with the Internet Access business the number subscribers declines, and increased advertising and subscription revenue. The operating income increase was partially offset increase headcount-related costs from increased hiring and increases salary and benefits, and $ million tax benefit recorded the first quarter fiscal year . MSN reached profitability the first quarter fiscal year and was profitable for fiscal year . The improvement profitability fiscal year was primarily driven increase revenue, decline customer acquisition costs and other expenses related the Internet Access business, efficiency gains the operations the advertising and subscription businesses, and $ million refund previous year taxes, partially offset increase stock-based compensation expense. MSN expects increased growth advertising revenue benefits from improvements its advertising platform and search engine and continued increases Internet spending. expect revenue from narrowband Internet Access continue decline fiscal year . Profitability may decline fiscal year investments are made the development new applications and services, the search and search monetization platform, and growth the field sales force. MSN may from time time continue make investments improving the user experience and some cases, the number advertisements delivered either via our search tools via our Internet portals may reduced improve the overall user experience thereby helping sustain and grow our user base. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint Mobile and Embedded Devices have been moved MSN. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN reported results. Mobile and Embedded Devices ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ $ % $ % Operating loss $ ( ) $ ( ) % $ ( ) % Mobile and Embedded Devices includes Windows Mobile \x99 software, Windows Embedded operating systems, MapPoint  , and Windows Automotive. These products extend the advantages the Windows platform mobile devices such PDAs, phones, and wide range embedded devices. The business also responsible for managing sales and customer relationships for Microsoft overall with device manufacturers and communication sector customers. The communication sector includes network service providers (such wireless, wireline and cable operators), and media and entertainment companies. The market for products these segments intensely competitive. Competitive alternatives vary based product lines and include product offerings from commercial and non-commercial mobile operating system providers, and proprietary software developed OEMs and mobile operators. Short product lifecycles product lines such Windows Mobile software may impact our continuing revenue streams. Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue growth for fiscal year was primarily due unit volume increases all major product lines, especially Windows Mobile software sales and Windows Embedded operating systems. Increased revenue for Windows Mobile software was primarily driven increased market demand for connected mobile devices such phone-enabled PDAs and Smartphones, and strong growth volume shipments for PAGE Part Item standalone PDAs. The increase Windows Embedded revenue was due our operating system being included new product designs for both new and existing customers. Mobile and Embedded Devices also benefited from the increased demand for -line mapping and the introduction new MapPoint finished goods products. This new functionality resulted increased unit sales for Mobile, Embedded, and MapPoint product categories. fiscal year , revenue for Windows Mobile software increased $ million %, revenue for Windows Embedded operating systems increased $ million % and revenue for MapPoint and Windows Automotive increased $ million %. Mobile and Embedded Devices realized positive increases customer satisfaction ratings from both mobile operator partners and the developer community. fiscal year , Mobile and Embedded Devices released Windows Mobile which the latest version our mobile operating software. Unit volume increases drove revenue growth for fiscal year over fiscal year all major product lines. The growth was primarily due the increased number OEMs and mobile operators shipping Windows Mobile software for Smartphones, increases market share for our Pocket and embedded products and increased usage existing customers our MapPoint Web Service. Mobile and Embedded Devices operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due decrease stock-based compensation expense. The growth revenue and reduction sales and marketing expense also contributed improved operating results this period compared the previous year. This improvement has been partially offset increased salary and benefit costs from increased hiring and increased investment research and development. The Mobile and Embedded Devices operating loss for fiscal year decreased compared fiscal year primarily due growth revenue and lower marketing expenses, partially offset $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year . Mobile and Embedded Devices committed continuing product innovation meet the growing needs our customers and partners. will continue invest research and development and sales and marketing develop and market evolving software solutions. fiscal year expect bring added functionality the Windows Mobile platform through the Windows Mobile Messaging and Security Feature Pack and the Exchange Server Service Pack . This solution enables business users easily stay connected their Microsoft Office Outlook Mobile information and helps businesses better protect device data. expect sales for Mobile and Embedded Devices continue grow fiscal year . The growth anticipated driven overall increase customer demand for connectivity, and increase the number new devices being offered OEMs and mobile operators incorporating Windows Mobile software and Windows Embedded operating systems. Growth also anticipated due strong focus increasing segment share the connected device space working with our partners bring market strong portfolio Smartphone and mobile computing devices. addition, are focused bringing market applications and services the Windows Mobile platform that fulfill our customers desire for personalized communication devices. Effective July , , functions related MapPoint Mobile and Embedded Devices have been moved MSN. This reorganization will result corresponding change the Mobile and Embedded Devices and MSN reported results. Home and Entertainment ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Revenue $ , $ , % $ , % Operating loss $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( )% $ ( ) % Home and Entertainment includes the Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, the Home Products Division (HPD), and platform products for the interactive television industry. The success video game consoles determined console functionality, the portfolio video game content for the console, and the market share the console. Revenue and unit volumes have grown quickly since entered the market and have established ourselves one the market leaders. believe our competitive position and revenue bolstered our increasing software game attach rates, which provides higher margins offset the declining prices consoles sold. Xbox consoles have negative gross margins. Home and Entertainment revenue increased fiscal year primarily due significant new product launches, which resulted $ million % increase Xbox revenue. the second quarter fiscal year , PAGE Part Item introduced Halo , which generated over $ million revenue the fiscal year. Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games, and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software sales. fiscal year , Xbox revenue increased $ million % with $ million related higher Xbox software volumes and $ million due higher Xbox console volumes, partially offset $ million decline related price reductions Xbox consoles and software. Overall, Xbox console volumes sales increased % fiscal year compared fiscal year . Revenue from consumer hardware and software, games and platforms declined $ million % compared fiscal year due lower games software and gaming devices sales, partially offset the new release Mac Office. Home and Entertainment operating loss fiscal year decreased primarily due increase high margin Xbox software sales, lower Xbox console unit costs, the lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment recorded fiscal year , and decrease stock-based compensation expense. The decrease was partially offset increase costs associated with Xbox console development and launch efforts associated with . The increase operating loss fiscal year was primarily due $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year , increased sales negative margin consoles, and costs associated with Xbox console development efforts, partially offset increased Xbox and Mac Office software sales. The operating loss increase from fiscal year also included lower- -cost- -market adjustment approximately $ million related Xbox console inventory. expect operating expenses continue increase near the launch Xbox . result launch-related activities, expect our operating loss increase fiscal year . fiscal year , expect Xbox console unit volumes and revenue increase from fiscal year due launch the Xbox . fiscal year expect games revenue increase from fiscal year driven more new game titles. Corporate-Level Expenses ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Corporate-level Expenses $ , $ , % $ , ( )% Certain corporate-level expenses are not allocated our segments. Those expenses primarily include corporate operations related broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, certain research and development and other costs, and all litigation settlements and accrued legal contingencies. fiscal year , corporate-level expenses decreased primarily result reduction stock-based compensation expense and decreased corporate legal costs. Fiscal year legal costs were $ billion compared $ billion fiscal year . The legal costs both years were primarily related antitrust and competition law claims brought competitors, class actions behalf end users, and government regulatory bodies outside the United States. fiscal year , corporate-level expenses increased primarily due legal costs including $ billion charge for settlement with the Sun Microsystems, Inc., and the fine \x80 million ($ million) imposed the European Commission. addition, stock-based compensation increased $ million compared fiscal year . Cost Revenue ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Cost revenue $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ( )ppt % ( )ppt Cost revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred support and maintain Internet-based products and services, and costs associated with the delivery consulting services. PAGE Part Item addition decrease the cost revenue fiscal year due lower stock-based compensation expense, the cost revenue decreased due $ million reduction costs primarily associated with provisioning the MSN Internet Access business subscriptions declined and $ million reduction other product costs mainly due Xbox consoles cost efficiency Home and Entertainment, partially offset increased costs product support and consulting services costs. The increase fiscal year was primarily due increased product support and consulting services costs $ million, $ million stock-based compensation expense from the employee stock option transfer program, and lower- -cost- -market inventory adjustment the fourth quarter fiscal year approximately $ million related the Xbox console, partially offset $ million decrease MSN online operations costs. Research and Development ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Research and development $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ppt % ( )ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred translate software for international markets, and the amortization purchased software code and services content. Our research and development expenses decreased fiscal year due lower stock-based compensation expense. This expense decline was partially offset increase headcount-related costs associated with incremental hiring and product development costs associated with upcoming products, primarily the Xbox console and related games, SQL Server , Windows Vista, and product development Mobile and Embedded devices. The increase fiscal year was primarily due $ billion stock-based compensation expenses related the option transfer program and other headcount-related payroll and other employee costs associated with % increase research and development headcount from fiscal year . Sales and Marketing ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change Sales and marketing $ , $ , % $ , % percent revenue % % ( )ppt % ( )ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. For fiscal year , sales and marketing expense increased slightly due $ million higher headcount-related costs from hiring and salary increases; higher sales and marketing costs driven product planning, reseller marketing, and advertising campaign costs mainly related launch the \x93Start Something\x94 campaign; launch Halo ; and launch arrangements for Xbox . The increase was offset mainly reductions stock-based compensation expense. Sales and marketing costs increased fiscal year due $ million stock-based compensation expense related the option transfer program and other headcount-related costs related % increase sales and marketing headcount. General and Administrative ( millions, except percentages) Percent Change Percent Change General and administrative $ , $ , % $ , ( )% percent revenue % % ppt % ( )ppt PAGE Part Item General and administrative costs include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources, and other administrative headcount; and legal costs and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses decreased fiscal year due lower legal costs and stock-based compensation expense, partially offset increase other headcount-related costs from new and existing employees $ million. fiscal year , our legal expenses were driven charges $ billion, nearly all which were for settlements certain antitrust claims with IBM, Novell, Gateway, and end-user class action plaintiffs, and increases contingency reserves for anti-trust related claims. General and administrative costs increased fiscal year primarily due legal expenses including $ billion charges related the Sun Microsystems settlement, $ million fine imposed the European Commission, and other legal costs approximately $ million; $ million stock-based compensation expense related the employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year ; and other headcount-related costs. Investment Income The components investment income and other each full fiscal year are follows: ( millions) Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Dividends and interest income declined $ million fiscal year due the combination greater allocation funds lower yielding, more liquid asset classes preparation for the $ billion special dividend paid December , and lower portfolio balance following payment the special dividend. Net gains investments declined $ million fiscal year due primarily greater sales investments the previous fiscal year preparation for the special dividend paid December , . Net gains investments also include other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ million fiscal year . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other than temporary. employ systematic methodology that considers available evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other than temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. Derivative instruments are used manage exposures interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates and facilitate portfolio diversification. Net derivative losses fiscal year were primarily related losses equity derivatives, interest rate derivatives, and foreign currency contracts. During fiscal year , losses related equity derivatives used economically hedge against decline equity prices were $ million and losses related interest rate derivatives were $ million. These losses were offset the combination realized gains sales securities and unrealized gains related increases the market value the underlying assets included component other comprehensive income. Net losses related foreign currency contracts were $ million, related part hedging anticipated foreign currency revenues while the . dollar generally declined against most currencies during the current fiscal year, and economically hedging foreign currency based investment exposures. Losses related hedging foreign currency-based investment exposures were offset unrealized gains the underlying assets. Net gains derivatives also included gains related commodity positions used provide portfolio diversification. Gains commodity positions were $ million during fiscal year . fiscal year , dividends and interest income decreased $ million mainly due lower dividend income resulting from the exchange & % convertible preferred debt for common shares Comcast during fiscal year and declining interest rates, partly offset larger investment portfolio. Net gains investments include PAGE Part Item other-than-temporary impairments $ million fiscal year compared $ billion fiscal year and higher net realized gains sales fiscal year moved more liquid investment asset classes. Net realized gains sales were $ billion fiscal year and $ billion fiscal year . The decline impairments was due improved market conditions. Derivative losses decreased $ million $ million fiscal year compared fiscal year primarily due the combined effects interest rate movements interest rate sensitive instruments and equity market price movements relative positions used hedge the fair value certain equity securities. Net losses equity investees and other for the previous periods were reclassified into investment income and other conform the current period presentation. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for the full fiscal year was % compared with % for fiscal year . The decreased rate for the full year resulted primarily from the reversal $ million previously accrued taxes upon settling Internal Revenue Service examination for fiscal years and recording tax benefit $ million generated the decision repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings under temporary incentive provided the American Jobs Creation Act . The effective tax rate for fiscal year was %. The fiscal year rate reflected benefit the second quarter $ million which resulted from the reversal previously accrued taxes that were related previous unfavorable Tax Court ruling, portions which were reversed the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals. Financial Condition Cash and short-term investments totaled $ billion June , compared $ billion June , . The decline primarily attributable the special dividend $ per share, $ billion, paid December , , and common stock repurchases million shares for $ billion during . Equity and other investments were $ billion June , compared $ billion June , . The investment portfolio consists primarily fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio invested predominantly . dollar denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency denominated positions order diversify financial risk. The portfolio primarily invested short-term securities facilitate rapid deployment for immediate cash needs. result the special dividend and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $ billion June , . Our retained deficit not expected impact our future ability operate pay dividends given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue attributable volume licensing programs, undelivered elements software licensing arrangements, and certain other services. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings, paid either upfront the beginning each billing coverage period, that are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. For certain other licensing arrangements revenue attributable undelivered elements, including free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Other unearned revenue includes Services, Platform, Microsoft Business Solutions, and advertising and subscription services where have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when provide the service software otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. Unearned revenue June , increased $ million from June , reflecting current period billings outpacing the recognition deferrals from multi-year licensing arrangements $ million and $ million increase primarily unearned revenue for services, MSN advertising and subscriptions, Xbox Live, platform, and Microsoft Business Solutions, partially offset $ million decline revenue deferred for undelivered elements. PAGE Part Item The following table outlines the expected recognition unearned revenue June , : ( millions) Recognition Unearned Revenue Three months ended: September , $ , December , , March , , June , Thereafter , Unearned revenue $ , Cash Flows Cash flow from operations for fiscal year increased % $ billion due primarily increase cash receipts from customers driven our % revenue growth combined with % increase unearned revenue. Cash payments fiscal year resulting from significant legal settlements were approximately $ billion lower than the previous year, adding the overall increase operating cash flow. Partially offsetting these factors were increased payments employees resulting from % increase full-time employees. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , driven $ billion cash dividends paid fiscal year compared $ billion paid fiscal year . The increase was also partially driven $ billion cash used for common stock repurchases, increase $ billion cash used for share repurchases compared the previous year, reflecting million shares repurchased fiscal year , increase million shares compared the previous year. Net cash from investing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year , primarily due $ billion increase investment maturities that occurred fund cash dividends paid fiscal year , partially offset $ billion decrease cash from combined investment purchase and sale activity. Cash flow from operations for fiscal year decreased $ billion $ billion. The decrease primarily reflects the combined cash outflows $ billion related the Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine partially offset increased cash receipts from customers driven the rise revenue billings. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from the previous year. The decrease reflects that did not repurchase common stock the fourth quarter fiscal year combined with $ million increase primarily from stock issuances related employee stock options exercises, partially offset $ million increase cash dividends paid. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year . Cash flow from operations was $ billion for fiscal year , increase $ billion from fiscal year . The increase primarily reflects the rise cash receipts from customers driven the increase revenue billings and maintenance relatively stable accounts receivable levels. Cash used for financing was $ billion fiscal year , increase $ million from the previous year. The increase reflects cash dividend payment $ million and increase $ million common stock repurchased, offsetting $ million received from common stock issued. repurchased million shares common stock under our share repurchase program fiscal year . Cash used for investing was $ billion fiscal year , decrease $ billion from fiscal year , due stronger portfolio performance sold and matured investments. have material long-term debt. Stockholders\x92 equity June , was $ billion. will continue invest sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas technology. Additions property and equipment will continue, including new facilities and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. Commitments for constructing new buildings were $ million June , . have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment under which incurred rental expense totaling, $ million, $ million and $ million fiscal year , and , respectively. have issued residual value guarantees connection with various operating leases. These guarantees provide that not purchase the leased property from the PAGE Part Item lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. have not engaged any related party transactions arrangements with unconsolidated entities other persons that are reasonably likely materially affect liquidity the availability requirements for capital resources. fiscal year , our Board Directors approved $ per share cash dividends, with $ paid June , . quarterly dividend $ per share ( approximately $ million) was approved our Board Directors June , paid shareholders record August , September , . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without previous notice. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change stockholders\x92 equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. During fiscal year , repurchased million shares, $ billion our common stock under this plan. believe existing cash and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations should sufficient meet operating requirements, quarterly dividends and planned share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance balance sheet with large component cash and short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views potential future capital requirements relating research and development, creation and expansion sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges our business model. regularly assess our investment management approach view our current and potential future needs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements June , , had guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company. The total amount these guarantees was approximately $ million. Effective December , , the guarantees were terminated. provide indemnifications varying scope and amount certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, interpreted FASB Interpretation . (FIN) . consider factors such the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations June , : ( millions) ( ) Payments due period Fiscal Years - - and thereafter Total Long-term debt $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 $ \x96 Construction commitments ( ) \x96 Lease obligations: Capital leases \x96 Operating leases ( ) , Purchase commitments ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Other long-term liabilities ( ) \x96 Total contractual obligations $ , $ $ $ $ , PAGE Part Item ( ) have excluded the $ billion contingent liability related the antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits referred the third paragraph Note \x96 Contingencies the Notes Financial Statements the timing and amount resolved cash versus vouchers subject uncertainty. ( ) have certain commitments for the construction buildings. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Our future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases comprise the majority the operating lease obligations presented above. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) Purchase commitments represent obligations under agreements which are not unilaterally cancelable , are legally enforceable, and specify fixed minimum amounts quantities goods services fixed minimum prices. generally require purchase orders for vendor and third-party spending. The amount presented above purchase commitments includes analysis all known contracts exceeding $ million the aggregate and all known open purchase orders. expect fund these commitments with existing cash and cash flows from operations. ( ) have excluded unearned revenue $ billion from other long-term liabilities presented above these will not settled cash. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS November , the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS . , Inventory Costs , which clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material. SFAS . will effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June , . not believe the adoption SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . , Exchanges Nonmonetary Assets , which eliminates the exception for nonmonetary exchanges similar productive assets and replaces with general exception for exchanges nonmonetary assets that not have commercial substance. SFAS . will effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring fiscal periods beginning after June , . not believe the adoption SFAS . will have material impact our financial statements. December , the FASB issued SFAS . ( ), Share-Based Payment , which establishes standards for transactions which entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods services. This standard requires issuer measure the cost employee services received exchange for award equity instruments based the grant-date fair value the award. This eliminates the exception account for such awards using the intrinsic method previously allowable under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion . . March , the SEC released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) , Share-Based Payment, which expresses views the SEC Staff about the application SFAS . ( ). April the SEC issued rule that SFAS . ( ) will effective for annual reporting periods beginning after June , . previously adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , July , and restated previous periods that time for all awards granted employees after July , . Accordingly believe SFAS . ( ) will not have material impact our financial statements; however, continue assess the potential impact that the adoption SFAS . ( ) will have the classification tax deductions for stock-based compensation our statements cash flows. APPLICATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with . GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected management\x92 application accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for include revenue recognition, impairment investment securities, impairment goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for legal contingencies, accounting for income taxes, and accounting for stock-based compensation. account for the licensing software accordance with American Institute Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement Position (SOP) - , Software Revenue Recognition. The application SOP - requires judgment, including whether software arrangement includes multiple elements, and , whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) fair value exists for those elements. Customers receive certain elements our products over period time. These elements include free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis, the fair value which recognized over the product\x92 estimated life cycle. Changes the elements software arrangement, the PAGE Part Item ability identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value the respective elements, and changes product\x92 estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount earned and unearned revenue. Judgment also required assess whether future releases certain software represent new products upgrades and enhancements existing products. SFAS . , Accounting for Certain Investments Debt and Equity Securities , and SEC SAB , Accounting for Noncurrent Marketable Equity Securities , provide guidance determining when investment other-than-temporarily impaired. Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. making this judgment, employ systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. market, industry and investee conditions deteriorate, may incur future impairments. SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , requires that goodwill tested for impairment the reporting unit level (operating segment one level below operating segment) annual basis (July for ) and between annual tests event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value. These events circumstances could include significant change the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale disposition significant portion reporting unit. Application the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification reporting units, assignment assets and liabilities reporting units, assignment goodwill reporting units, and determination the fair value each reporting unit. The fair value each reporting unit estimated using discounted cash flow methodology. This requires significant judgments including estimation future cash flows, which dependent internal forecasts, estimation the long-term rate growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination our weighted average cost capital. Changes these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. account for research and development costs accordance with several accounting pronouncements, including SFAS . , Accounting for Research and Development Costs , and SFAS . , Accounting for the Costs Computer Software Sold, Leased, Otherwise Marketed . SFAS . specifies that costs incurred internally researching and developing computer software product should charged expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility established, all software costs should capitalized until the product available for general release customers. Judgment required determining when technological feasibility product established. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. The outcomes legal proceedings and claims brought against are subject significant uncertainty. SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies, requires that estimated loss from loss contingency such legal proceeding claim should accrued charge income probable that asset has been impaired liability has been incurred and the amount the loss can reasonably estimated. Disclosure contingency required there least reasonable possibility that loss has been incurred. determining whether loss should accrued evaluate, among other factors, the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. Changes these factors could materially impact our financial position our results operations. SFAS . , Accounting for Income Taxes , establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effect income taxes. The objectives accounting for income taxes are recognize the amount taxes payable refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences events that have been recognized entity\x92 financial statements tax returns. Judgment required assessing the future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns. Variations the actual outcome these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial position, results operations, cash flows. PAGE Part Item , account for stock-based compensation accordance with the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value stock-based awards the grant date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term stock options, the expected volatility our stock and expected dividends. addition, judgment also required estimating the amount stock-based awards that are expected forfeited. actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results operations could materially impacted. ITEM . QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK are exposed foreign currency, interest rate, fixed income, equity and commodity price risks. portion these risks hedged, but fluctuations could impact our results operations and financial position. hedge portion anticipated revenue and accounts receivable exposure foreign currency fluctuations, primarily with option contracts. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Fixed income securities are subject interest rate risk. The portfolio diversified and structured minimize credit risk. Securities held our equity and other investments portfolio are subject price risk, and are generally not hedged. However, use options hedge our price risk certain equity securities that are held primarily for strategic purposes. use value- -risk (VAR) model estimate and quantify our market risks. VAR the expected loss, for given confidence level, fair value our portfolio due adverse market movements over defined time horizon. The VAR model not intended represent actual losses fair value, but used risk estimation and management tool. The model used for currencies and equities geometric Brownian motion, which allows incorporation optionality with regard these risk exposures. For interest rate risk, the mean reverting geometric Brownian motion used reflect the principle that fixed-income securities prices revert maturity value over time. VAR calculated , first, simulating , market price paths over specified period time for equities, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, taking into account historical correlations among the different rates and prices. Each resulting unique set equities prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates then applied substantially all individual holdings -price each holding. The 250th worst performance (out , ) represents the VAR over specified period time the percentile confidence level. Several risk factors are not captured the model, including liquidity risk, operational risk, credit risk, and legal risk. Certain securities our equity portfolio are held for strategic purposes. hedge the value portion these securities through the use derivative contracts such put-call collars. these arrangements, hedge security\x92 equity price risk below the purchased put strike and forgo most all the benefits the security\x92 appreciation above the sold call strike, exchange for the premium received for the sold call. also hold equity securities for general investment return purposes. have incurred material impairment charges related these securities previous periods. The VAR amounts disclosed below are used risk management tool and reflect estimate potential reductions fair value our portfolio. Losses fair value over the specified holding period can exceed the reported VAR significant amounts and can also accumulate over longer time horizon than the specified holding period used the VAR analysis. VAR amounts are not necessarily reflective potential accounting losses, including determinations other-than-temporary losses fair value accordance with . GAAP. The VAR numbers are shown separately for interest rate, currency, equity and commodity risks. These VAR numbers include the underlying portfolio positions and related hedges. use historical data estimate VAR. Given the reliance historical data, VAR most effective estimating risk exposures markets which there are fundamental changes shifts market conditions. inherent limitation VAR that the distribution past changes market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions future market risk. PAGE Part Item Management began using -day VAR for internal risk measurement purposes effective for the quarter-ended March , . The effect changing from -day VAR -day VAR was not material and there have been modifications the assumptions parameters within the model. The following table sets forth the -day VAR for substantially all our positions. ( millions) Year ended June , Risk Categories Average High Low Interest rates $ $ $ $ $ Currency rates Equity prices Commodity prices \x96 \x96 The total -day VAR for the combined risk categories was $ million June , and $ million June , . The total VAR % less June , and % less June, than the sum the separate risk categories for each those years the above table, due the diversification benefit the combination risks. PAGE Part Item ITEM . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS ( millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended June Revenue $ , $ , $ , Operating expenses: Cost revenue , , , Research and development , , , Sales and marketing , , , General and administrative , , , Total operating expenses , , , Operating income , , , Investment income and other , , , Income before income taxes , , , Provision for income taxes , , , Net income $ , $ , $ , Earnings per share: Basic $ $ $ Diluted $ $ $ Weighted average shares outstanding: Basic , , , Diluted , , , Cash dividends declared per share $ $ $ See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item BALANCE SHEETS ( millions) June Assets Current assets: Cash and equivalents $ , $ , Short-term investments , , Total cash and short-term investments , , Accounts receivable, net , , Inventories Deferred income taxes , , Other , , Total current assets , , Property and equipment, net , , Equity and other investments , , Goodwill , , Intangible assets, net Deferred income taxes , , Other long-term assets , , Total assets $ , $ , Liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ , $ , Accrued compensation , , Income taxes , , Short-term unearned revenue , , Other , , Total current liabilities , , Long-term unearned revenue , , Other long-term liabilities , , Commitments and contingencies Stockholders\x92 equity: Common stock and paid- capital \x96 shares authorized , ; outstanding , and , , , Retained earnings (deficit), including accumulated other comprehensive income $ , and $ , , ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity , , Total liabilities and stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Operations Net income $ , $ , $ , Depreciation, amortization, and other noncash items , , Stock-based compensation , , , Net recognized (gains)/losses investments ( , ) ( ) Stock option income tax benefits , , Deferred income taxes ( , ) ( , ) ( ) Unearned revenue , , , Recognition unearned revenue ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Accounts receivable ( ) ( , ) Other current assets ( ) Other long-term assets ( ) Other current liabilities , Other long-term liabilities , Net cash from operations , , , Financing Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock cash dividends ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Other \x96 \x96 ( ) Net cash used for financing ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Investing Additions property and equipment ( ) ( , ) ( ) Acquisition companies, net cash acquired ( , ) ( ) ( ) Purchases investments ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Maturities investments , , , Sales investments , , , Net cash from investing ( , ) ( , ) , Net change cash and equivalents , , ( , ) Effect exchange rates cash and equivalents ( ) Cash and equivalents, beginning period , , , Cash and equivalents, end period $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY STATEMENTS ( millions) Year Ended June Common stock and paid- capital Balance, beginning period $ , $ , $ , Common stock issued , , , Common stock repurchased ( ) ( ) ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense , , , Stock option income tax benefits/(deficiencies) , ( ) Other, net \x96 ( ) Balance, end period , , , Retained earnings (deficit) Balance, beginning period , , , Net income , , , Other comprehensive income: Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investments gains/(losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Comprehensive income , , , Common stock cash dividends ( ) ( , ) ( , ) Common stock repurchased ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Balance, end period , , ( , ) Total stockholders\x92 equity $ , $ , $ , See accompanying notes. PAGE Part Item NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. PRINCIPLES CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the accounts Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Equity investments which exercise significant influence but not control and are not the primary beneficiary are accounted for using the equity method. Investments which are not able exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Preparing financial statements requires management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Examples include estimates loss contingencies and product life cycles, and assumptions such the elements comprising software arrangement, including the distinction between upgrades enhancements and new products; when technological feasibility achieved for our products; the potential outcome future tax consequences events that have been recognized our financial statements tax returns; estimating the fair value and goodwill impairment for our reporting units; and determining when investment impairments are other-than-temporary. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management\x92 estimates and assumptions. FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities recorded foreign currencies are translated the exchange rate the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated average rates exchange prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged credited Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognized when persuasive evidence arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee fixed determinable, and collectibility probable. enter into certain arrangements where are obligated deliver multiple products and services (multiple elements). these arrangements, generally allocate the total revenue among the elements based the sales price each element when sold separately (vendor-specific objective evidence). Revenue for retail packaged products, products licensed original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and perpetual licenses for current products under our Open and Select volume licensing programs generally recognized products are shipped, with portion the revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements including, some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount revenue allocated undelivered elements based the vendor-specific objective evidence fair value for those elements using the residual method. Under the residual method, the total fair value the undelivered elements, indicated vendor-specific objective evidence, recorded unearned, and the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount recorded unearned for the undelivered elements recognized revenue related delivered elements. Unearned revenue due undelivered elements recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. Revenue from multi-year licensing arrangements are accounted for subscriptions, with billings recorded unearned revenue and recognized revenue ratably over the billing coverage period. Certain multi-year licensing arrangements include rights receive future versions software product when-and- -available basis under Open and Select volume licensing programs (currently named Software Assurance and, previously named Upgrade Advantage). addition, other multi-year licensing arrangements include perpetual license for current products combined with rights receive future versions software products when-and- -available basis under Open, Select, and Enterprise Agreement volume licensing programs. Premier support services agreements, MSN Internet Access subscriptions, Xbox Live, and Microsoft Developer Network subscriptions are also accounted for subscriptions. PAGE Part Item Revenue related our Xbox game console recognized upon shipment the product retailers. Revenue related games published recognized when those games have been delivered retailers. Revenue related games published third parties for use the Xbox platform recognized when manufactured for the game publishers. Online advertising revenue recognized advertisements are displayed. Search advertising revenue recognized when the appears the search results when the action necessary earn the revenue has been completed. Consulting services revenue recognized services are rendered, generally based the negotiated hourly rate the consulting arrangement and the number hours worked during the period. Revenue for fixed price services arrangements recognized based percentage completion. Costs related insignificant obligations, which include telephone support for developer tools software, games, computer hardware, and Xbox, are accrued when the related revenue recognized. Provisions are recorded for estimated returns, concessions, and bad debts. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with product development. have determined that technological feasibility for our software products reached shortly before the products are released manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility established are not material, and accordingly, expense all research and development costs when incurred. SALES AND MARKETING Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, tradeshows, seminars, and other marketing-related programs. Advertising costs are expensed incurred. Advertising expense was $ billion fiscal year , $ million fiscal year , and $ million fiscal year . INCOME TAXES Income tax expense includes . and international income taxes, plus the provision for . taxes undistributed earnings international subsidiaries not deemed permanently invested. Certain items income and expense are not reported tax returns and financial statements the same year. The tax effect such temporary differences reported deferred income taxes. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS consider all highly liquid interest-earning investments with maturity three months less the date purchase cash equivalents. Investments with maturities beyond one year may classified short-term based their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent the investment cash that available for current operations. All cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified available for sale and are recorded market value using the specific identification method; unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. Equity and other investments include both debt and equity instruments. Debt securities and publicly traded equity securities are classified available for sale and are recorded market using the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) are reflected OCI. All other investments, excluding those accounted for using the equity method, are recorded cost. lend certain fixed income and equity securities enhance investment income. Collateral and security interest determined based upon the underlying security and the creditworthiness the borrower. The fair value collateral that are permitted sell -pledge was $ million both June , and . Investments are considered impaired when decline fair value judged other-than-temporary. employ systematic methodology quarterly basis that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence evaluating potential impairment our investments. the cost investment exceeds its fair value, evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent which the fair value less than cost, and our intent and ability hold the investment. also consider specific adverse conditions related the financial health and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once decline fair value determined other-than-temporary, impairment charge recorded and new cost basis the investment established. PAGE Part Item use derivative instruments manage exposures foreign currency, equities price, interest rate and credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. Our objectives for holding derivatives include reducing, eliminating, and efficiently managing the economic impact these exposures effectively possible. Derivative instruments are recognized either assets liabilities and are measured fair value. The accounting for changes the fair value derivative depends the intended use the derivative and the resulting designation. For derivative instrument designated fair-value hedge, the gain loss recognized earnings the period change together with the offsetting loss gain the hedged item attributed the risk being hedged. For derivative instrument designated cash-flow hedge, the effective portion the derivative\x92 gain loss initially reported component OCI and subsequently recognized earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion the gain loss recognized earnings. For options designated either fair-value cash-flow hedges, changes the time value are excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and are recognized earnings. Gains and losses from changes fair values derivatives that are not designated hedges for accounting purposes are recognized earnings. Foreign Currency Risk. Certain forecasted transactions and assets are exposed foreign currency risk. monitor our foreign currency exposures daily maximize the overall effectiveness our foreign currency hedge positions. Options are used hedge portion forecasted international revenue for three years the future and are designated cash-flow hedging instruments under Statement Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) . , Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . Principal currencies hedged include the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Canadian dollar. Certain non- . dollar denominated securities are hedged using foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated fair-value hedging instruments under SFAS . . Certain options and forwards not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . are also used hedge the impact the variability exchange rates accounts receivable and collections denominated certain foreign currencies and manage other foreign currency exposures. Equities Price Risk. Equity investments are subject market price risk. From time time, use and designate options hedge fair values and cash flows certain equity securities. determine the security, forecasted sale thereof, selected for hedging evaluating market conditions, -front costs, and other relevant factors. Certain options, futures and swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are also used manage equity exposures. Interest Rate Risk. Fixed-income securities are subject interest rate risk. The fixed-income portfolio diversified and consists primarily investment grade securities minimize credit risk. use exchange-traded option and future contracts and over-the-counter swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , hedge interest rate risk. Other Derivatives. Swap contracts, not designated hedging instruments under SFAS . , are used manage exposures credit risks, enhance returns, and facilitate portfolio diversification. addition, may invest warrants purchase securities other companies strategic investment. Warrants that can net share settled are deemed derivative financial instruments and are not designated hedging instruments. Announced (TBAs) forward purchase commitments mortgage-backed assets are also considered derivatives cases where physical delivery the assets are not taken the earliest available delivery date. All derivative instruments not designated hedging instruments are recorded fair value, with changes value recognized earnings during the period change. PAGE Part Item ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate probable losses inherent the accounts receivable balance. determine the allowance based known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Activity the allowance for doubtful accounts follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance beginning period Charged costs and expenses Write-offs and other Balance end period $ $ $ ( ) $ ( ) ( ) INVENTORIES Inventories are stated the lower cost market, using the average cost method. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related the purchase and production inventories. regularly review inventory quantities hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility our inventory. our review indicates reduction utility below carrying value, reduce our inventory new cost basis. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment stated cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter the estimated life the asset the lease term, ranging from one years. Computer software developed obtained for internal use depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life the software, generally three years less. GOODWILL Goodwill tested for impairment annual basis July , and between annual tests indicators potential impairment exist, using fair-value-based approach. impairment goodwill has been identified during any the periods presented. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period benefit, ranging from one ten years. evaluate the recoverability intangible assets periodically and take into account events circumstances that warrant revised estimates useful lives that indicate that impairment exists. All our intangible assets are subject amortization. impairments intangible assets have been identified during any the periods presented. RECLASSIFICATIONS Certain previous year amounts have been reclassified conform the current year presentation, including the reclassification auction rate securities (ARS) short-term investments instead cash and equivalents accordance with guidance issued the Securities and Exchange Commission and reclassification non-current tax contingencies from non-current deferred taxes other non-current liabilities. reclassified $ billion and $ billion investments ARS June , and , respectively, that were previously included cash and equivalents short-term investments. have included purchases and sales ARS our statements cash flows component investing activities. conform our current year presentation have also reclassified $ billion our fiscal year balance sheet from net long-term deferred income taxes other long-term liabilities, with conforming reclassifications the statement cash flows. These reclassifications had impact our results operations changes stockholders\x92 equity, cash flows. addition, net losses equity investees and other for previous periods were reclassified investment income and other conform the current period presentation. PAGE Part Item NOTE UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue comprised the following items: Volume licensing programs \x96 Represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront annually the beginning each billing coverage period, which are accounted for subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Undelivered elements \x96 Represents free post-delivery telephone support and the right receive unspecified upgrades enhancements Microsoft Internet Explorer when-and- -available basis. The amount recorded unearned based the sales price those elements when sold separately and recognized ratably straight-line basis over the related product\x92 life cycle. The percentage revenue recorded unearned due undelivered elements ranges from approximately % % the sales price for Windows Home, approximately % % the sales price for Windows Professional, and approximately % % the sales price for desktop applications, depending the terms and conditions the license and prices the elements. Product life cycles are currently estimated three and one-half years for Windows operating systems and two years for desktop applications. Other \x96 Represents payments for post-delivery support and consulting services performed the future, online advertising for which the advertisement has yet displayed, Microsoft Business Solutions maintenance and enhancement billings, Xbox Live and other billings that are accounted for subscriptions, and other agreements where Microsoft committed the delivery future enhancements, products, services, including the platform. The components unearned revenue are follows: ( millions) June Volume licensing programs $ , $ , Undelivered elements , , Other , Unearned revenue $ , $ , Unearned revenue segment follows: ( millions) June Client $ , $ , Server and Tools , , Information Worker , , Other segments Unearned revenue $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE INVESTMENTS The components investments are follows: ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash and securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , \x96 \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 \x96 , , , \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , , , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , ( millions) Cost basis Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Recorded basis Cash and equivalents Short - term investments Equity and other investments June , Cash and securities Cash $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 $ , $ , $ \x96 $ \x96 Mutual funds , \x96 , \x96 Commercial paper , \x96 , , \x96 \x96 Certificates deposit \x96 \x96 \x96 . . Government and Agency securities , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Foreign government bonds , ( ) , \x96 , \x96 Mortgage backed securities \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Corporate notes and bonds , ( ) , , Municipal securities , ( ) , , \x96 Other \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Common stock and equivalents , , ( ) , \x96 \x96 , Preferred stock , \x96 , \x96 \x96 , Other investments \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ , $ , $ ( ) $ , $ , $ , $ , June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. the unrealized losses $ million PAGE Part Item June , , $ million exceeded twelve months. June , unrealized losses $ million consisted : $ million related investment grade fixed income securities, $ million related investments high yield and emerging market fixed income securities, $ million related domestic equity securities and $ million related international equity securities. Unrealized losses from fixed income securities are primarily attributable changes interest rates. Unrealized losses from domestic and international equities are due market price movements. the unrealized losses $ million June , , $ million exceeded twelve months. Management does not believe any unrealized losses represent other-than-temporary impairment based our evaluation available evidence June , . Common and preferred stock and other investments that are restricted for more than one year are not publicly traded are recorded cost. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. June , the recorded basis these investments was $ billion, and their estimated fair value was $ billion. The estimate fair value based publicly available market information other estimates determined management. The maturities debt securities June , were follows: ( millions) Cost basis Estimated fair value Due one year less $ , $ , Due after one year through five years , , Due after five years through ten years , , Due after ten years , , Total $ , $ , Debt securities include fixed maturity securities. NOTE INVESTMENT INCOME AND OTHER The components investment income and other are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Dividends and interest $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments , Net losses derivatives ( ) ( ) ( ) Income/(losses) from equity investees and other ( ) ( ) Investment income and other $ , $ , $ , Net gains investments include other-than-temporary impairments $ billion fiscal year , $ million fiscal year , and $ million fiscal year . Realized gains and (losses) from sales available-for-sale securities (excluding other-than-temporary impairments) were $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year , $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year , and $ billion and $( ) million fiscal year . NOTE DERIVATIVES For derivative instruments designated hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, determined accordance with SFAS . , did not have significant impact earnings for fiscal years , , and . During fiscal year , $ million losses fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the PAGE Part Item assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million gains fair value hedges from changes time value and $ million losses cash flow hedges from changes time value were excluded from the assessment hedge effectiveness and included investment income and other. Derivative gains and losses included OCI are reclassified into earnings the time forecasted revenue the sale equity investment recognized. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and derivative gains losses were reclassified investment income and other. During fiscal year , $ million derivative gains were reclassified revenue and $ million derivative gains were reclassified investment income and other. estimate that $ million net derivative gains included OCI will reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. significant fair value hedges cash flow hedges were derecognized discontinued for fiscal years , , and . NOTE INVENTORIES ( millions) June Finished goods $ $ Raw materials and work process Inventories $ $ recorded lower cost market adjustments totaling approximately $ million fiscal year . NOTE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ( millions) June Land $ $ Buildings and improvements , , Leasehold improvements Computer equipment and software , , Furniture and equipment Property and equipment, cost , , Accumulated depreciation ( , ) ( , ) Property and equipment, net $ , $ , Property and equipment are stated cost. Depreciation computed principally the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives the assets. The useful lives for buildings range from five fifteen years, leasehold improvements range from two years ten years \x96 representing the applicable lease terms plus reasonably assured extensions, computer equipment and software range from two three years, and furniture and equipment range from one five years. Land not depreciated. During fiscal years , , and , depreciation expense was $ million, $ million, and $ million, the majority which related computer equipment. PAGE Part Item NOTE GOODWILL Changes the carrying amount goodwill for fiscal years and segment, are follows: ( millions) Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Divestitures Balance June , Acquisitions / purchase accounting adjustments Divestitures Balance June , Client $ $ \x96 $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 $ Server and Tools \x96 \x96 \x96 Information Worker ( ) \x96 \x96 Microsoft Business Solutions , ( ) , \x96 , MSN \x96 \x96 \x96 Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 \x96 \x96 Home and Entertainment ( ) \x96 \x96 ( ) Total $ , $ $ ( ) $ , $ $ ( ) $ , test goodwill for impairment annually during the first quarter each fiscal year the reporting unit level using fair value approach, accordance with the provisions SFAS . , Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . Our annual testing resulted impairment charges goodwill fiscal years and . event occurs circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value reporting unit below its carrying value, goodwill will evaluated for impairment between annual tests. During fiscal years and , had material acquisitions. NOTE INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components finite-lived intangible assets are follows: ( millions) June Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Gross carrying amount Accumulated amortization Net carrying amount Contract-based $ $ ( ) $ $ $ ( ) $ Technology-based ( ) ( ) Marketing-related ( ) ( ) Customer-related ( ) ( ) Total $ , $ ( ) $ $ , $ ( ) $ PAGE Part Item During fiscal year , recorded additions intangible assets $ million, which $ million was related comprehensive intellectual property license that received conjunction with the settlement InterTrust . Microsoft . During fiscal year , recorded additions finite-lived intangible assets approximately $ million. other material intangibles were acquired fiscal year . estimate that have significant residual value related our finite-lived intangible assets. The components finite-lived intangible assets acquired during fiscal years and are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount Weighted average life Amount Weighted average life Contract-based $ years $ years Technology-based years years Customer-related years years Marketing-related \x96 \x96 \x96 \x96 Total $ $ Acquired finite-lived intangibles are generally amortized straight-line basis over weighted average periods. Intangible assets amortization expense was $ million for fiscal year and $ million for fiscal year . The estimated future amortization expense related intangible assets June , follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ Total $ NOTE INCOME TAXES The components the provision for income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Current taxes: . Federal $ , $ , $ , . State and Local International , Current taxes , , , Deferred taxes ( , ) ( ) ( ) Provision for income taxes $ , $ , $ , PAGE Part Item . and international components income before income taxes are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June . $ , $ , $ , International , , , Income before income taxes $ , $ , $ , The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes are follows: Year Ended June Federal statutory rate % % % Effect : IRS examination settlement \x96 \x96 ( )% Foreign earnings taxed lower rates ( )% ( )% ( )% Extraterritorial income exclusion ( )% ( )% ( )% Other reconciling items \x96 % % Effective rate % % % The other reconciling items include $ million repatriation tax benefit. The other reconciling items include the $ million benefit from the resolution the issue remanded the Ninth Circuit Court Appeals and the impact the $ million non-deductible European Commission fine. The components the deferred tax assets and liabilities are follows: ( millions) June Deferred income tax assets: Unearned revenue $ , $ Impaired investments , Stock-based compensation expense , , Other revenue items Other expense items , , Other \x96 Deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Deferred income tax liabilities: Unrealized gain investments $ ( , ) $ ( , ) International earnings ( , ) ( , ) Other ( ) ( ) Deferred income tax liabilities ( , ) ( , ) Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , Reported : Current deferred tax assets $ , $ , Long-term deferred tax assets , , Net deferred income tax assets $ , $ , PAGE Part Item Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects temporary differences between the carrying amounts assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated enacted tax rates expected effect when taxes are actually paid recovered. have not provided for . deferred income taxes foreign withholding taxes $ billion our undistributed earnings for certain non- . subsidiaries, all which relate fiscal through earnings, because these earnings are intended permanently reinvested operations outside the United States. The American Jobs Creation Act (the \x93Act\x94) was enacted October . The Act creates temporary incentive for . corporations repatriate foreign subsidiary earnings providing elective % dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The deduction subject number limitations and requirements, including adoption specific domestic reinvestment plan for the repatriated funds. Based our current understanding the Act and subsequent guidance published the . Treasury, have determined that are eligible and intend repatriate approximately $ million dividends subject the elective % dividends received deduction. Accordingly, recorded corresponding tax provision benefit $ million from the reversal previously provided . deferred tax liabilities these unremitted foreign subsidiary earnings. intend pay this dividend fiscal year . Income taxes paid were $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . Tax Contingencies. are subject income taxes the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment required determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities. the ordinary course our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination uncertain. are regularly under audit tax authorities. Accruals for tax contingencies are provided for accordance with the requirements SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies . The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed and closed its audits our consolidated federal income tax returns through . recently entered into closing agreement with the IRS for tax years through resulting certain adjustments our federal income tax liability for those years. Accordingly, our fiscal year tax provision has been reduced $ million result reversing previously established reserves excess the additional tax liability assessed the IRS for the - tax years. The IRS currently conducting audit our consolidated federal income tax return for tax years through . Although believe have appropriate support for the positions taken our tax returns, have recorded liability for our best estimate the probable loss certain these positions, the non-current portion which included other long-term liabilities. believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years, based our assessment many factors including past experience and interpretations tax law applied the facts each matter, which matters result primarily from intercompany transfer pricing, tax benefits from the Foreign Sales Corporation and Extra Territorial Income tax rules and the amount research and experimentation tax credits claimed. Although believe our recorded assets and liabilities are reasonable, tax regulations are subject interpretation and tax litigation inherently uncertain; therefore our assessments can involve both series complex judgments about future events and rely heavily estimates and assumptions. Although believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, the final determination tax audits and any related litigation could materially different than that which reflected historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. Based the results audit litigation material effect our income tax provision, net income, cash flows the period periods for which that determination made could result. Due the complexity involved are not able estimate the range reasonably possible losses excess amounts recorded. NOTE OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES ( millions) June Tax contingencies $ , $ , Legal contingencies Employee stock option transfer program Other Other long-term liabilities $ , $ , PAGE Part Item NOTE STOCKHOLDERS\x92 EQUITY Shares common stock outstanding are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Balance, beginning year , , , Issued Repurchased ( ) ( ) ( ) Balance, end year , , , discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans, million options were transferred JPMorgan Chase Bank (JPMorgan) under the stock option transfer program. The options transferred JPMorgan were amended and restated upon transfer contain terms and conditions typical equity option transactions entered into between sophisticated financial counterparties arm\x92 length using standard terms and definitions for equity derivatives. June , , the options have strike prices ranging from $ $ per share and have expiration dates between December and December . July , , our Board Directors approved plan buy back $ billion Microsoft common stock over the succeeding four years. The specific timing and amount repurchases will vary based market conditions, securities law limitations, and other factors. The repurchases will made using our cash resources. The repurchase program may suspended discontinued any time without previous notice. any period, cash used financing activities related common stock repurchased may differ from the comparable change stockholders\x92 equity, reflecting timing differences between the recognition share repurchase transactions and their settlement for cash. Our Board Directors had previously approved program repurchase shares our common stock reduce the dilutive effect our stock option and stock purchase plans. Under these repurchase plans, have made the following share repurchases: (share amounts millions, dollars billions) ( ) Fiscal year ( ) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount First quarter $ $ $ Second quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter \x96 \x96 Total $ $ $ ( ) All amounts repurchased fiscal year were repurchased under the repurchase plan approved our Board Directors July , . addition, part our authorized stock repurchase program, have purchased call options million shares our common stock with strike prices ranging from $ \x96 $ . The call options have maturities ranging from July , January , and are reflected stockholders\x92 equity. fiscal year , our Board Directors approved the following dividends: Approval Date Per Share Dividend Date Record Total Amount ( millions) Payment Date July , $ August , $ September , July , $ November , $ , December , September , $ November , $ December , December , $ February , $ March , March , $ May , $ June , June , $ August , ( ) September , ( ) The dividend approved June , will paid after the filing date this report Form - . The accrued liability for the dividend approved June , $ million included other current liabilities. PAGE Part Item January and September , , our Board Directors declared annual dividends our common stock $ and $ per share, respectively. The dividends were paid March and November , , respectively, shareholders record the close business February , and October , . NOTE OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The activity other comprehensive income and related tax effects are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments: Unrealized gains/(losses), net tax effect $( ) , $ and $( ) $ ( ) $ $ ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ and $ Net gains/(losses) derivative instruments ( ) ( ) Net unrealized investment gains/(losses): Unrealized holding gains/(losses), net tax effect $ , $( ) and $( ) , ( , ) ( ) Reclassification adjustment for losses included net income, net tax effect $ , $ and $ Net unrealized investment gains/(losses) , ( ) Translation adjustments and other ( ) Other comprehensive income /(loss) $ , $ ( ) $ The components accumulated other comprehensive income were: ( millions) Year Ended June Net gains derivative instruments $ $ Net unrealized investment gains , Translation adjustments and other Accumulated other comprehensive income $ , $ , NOTE EMPLOYEE STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS Effective July , , adopted the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , using the retroactive restatement method described SFAS . , Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation \x96 Transition and Disclosure . Under the fair value recognition provisions SFAS . , stock-based compensation cost measured the grant date based the value the award and recognized expense over the vesting period. connection with the use the retroactive restatement method, income statement amounts were restated for fiscal year reflect results the fair-value method SFAS . had been applied from its original effective date. Total compensation cost recognized income for stock-based employee compensation awards was $ billion fiscal year , $ billion fiscal year , and $ billion fiscal year . The amounts for fiscal year include $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) due the completion the employee stock option transfer program. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. have employee stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. The administrative committee under the plan approved change the common stock purchase discount and approved PAGE Part Item the elimination the related look back period and change quarterly purchase periods that became effective July , . result, beginning fiscal year , shares our common stock may presently purchased employees three months intervals % the fair market value the last day each three month period. Employees may purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal year employees purchased million shares average price $ per share. June , , million shares were reserved for future issuance. Under the plan effect previous fiscal year , shares our common stock could purchased six month intervals % the lower the fair market value the first the last day each six month period. Employees could purchase shares having value not exceeding % their gross compensation during offering period. During fiscal year and employees purchased million and million shares average prices $ , and $ per share. Savings Plan. have savings plan the United States, that qualifies under Section ( ) the Internal Revenue Code, and number savings plans international locations. Participating . employees may contribute % their pretax salary, but not more than statutory limits. contribute fifty cents for each dollar participant contributes this plan, with maximum contribution % participant\x92 earnings. Matching contributions for all plans were $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and . Matching contributions are invested proportionate each participant\x92 voluntary contributions the investment options provided under the plan. Investment options the . plan include Microsoft common stock, but neither participant nor our matching contributions are required invested Microsoft common stock. Stock Plans. fiscal year , began granting employees stock awards instead stock options. The stock award program offers employees the opportunity earn shares our stock over time, rather than options that give employees the right purchase stock set price. also completed employee stock option transfer program the second quarter fiscal year whereby employees could elect transfer all their vested and unvested stock options with strike price $ higher (\x93eligible options\x94) JPMorgan. The unvested eligible options that were transferred JPMorgan became vested upon the transfer. Under the terms the program, JPMorgan paid $ million for the million options transferred. made initial payment $ million participating employees for the transferred options, with remaining portion paid one more payments that are subject participating employees\x92 continued employment over the two three years following the transfer. The options that were transferred JPMorgan resulted stock-based compensation expense $ billion ($ billion after-tax $ per diluted share) which was recorded the second quarter fiscal year . The contingent payments applicable eligible options that are subject continued employment participating employees will recognized compensation expense over the vesting period the contingent payments. The stock option transfer program also resulted decrease our long-term deferred tax assets due the excess recorded compensation expense for these options over the related tax deduction reported our tax return. For fiscal year , deferred tax assets were reduced approximately $ billion with offsetting reduction paid- capital, reflecting the reduction previously recorded deductions reported our tax return excess stock based compensation expense. description our stock plans follows. have stock plans for directors and for officers, employees, consultants and advisors. The plans provide for awards stock options and stock awards. June , , aggregate million shares were available for future grant under our stock plans. Our plans under which awards may issued not contain separate limitations the number stock awards; all million shares remaining available for grant June , could awarded stock awards. addition, awards that expire are cancelled without delivery shares generally become available for issuance under the plans. The options transferred JPMorgan have been removed from our plans; any options transferred JPMorgan that expire without being exercised will not become available for grant under any our plans. November , , our shareholders approved amendments the stock plans that allowed our Board Directors adjust eligible options, unvested stock awards, and shared performance stock awards maintain their pre-dividend value after the $ special dividend. Additional awards were granted for options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards the ratio post- and pre-special dividend stock price the -dividend date. PAGE Part Item Strike prices for options were decreased the same ratio. Stock-based compensation was not affected this adjustment. result this approval and payment the $ special dividend December , , adjustment the prices and number shares existing awards was made resulting total million options and million stock awards being issued adjust the outstanding awards. addition, the target shared performance stock awards were increased million shares. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards. Stock awards are grants that entitle the holder shares common stock the award vests. Our stock awards generally vest ratably over five-year period. Shared Performance Stock Awards are form stock award which the number shares ultimately received depends our performance against specified performance targets. The performance period July , through June , (January , through June , for certain executive officers). the end the performance period, the number shares stock and stock awards issued will determined adjusting upward downward from the target range between % and % ( % % for certain executive officers). The final performance percentage which the payout will based, considering performance metrics established for the performance period, will determined the Board Directors committee the board its sole discretion. Shares stock will issued following the end the performance period and the stock awards vest ratably over the following two years. Because these awards cover three-year period, Shared Performance Stock Awards will only awarded fiscal year and newly hired and promoted employees eligible receive Shared Performance Stock Awards. Stock Awards and Shared Performance Stock Awards are amortized over the vesting period (generally years) using the straight line method. The following activity has occurred under our existing plans: (share amounts millions) Year Ended June Stock awards Beginning balance Granted Special dividend adjustment \x96 Vested (. ) ( ) Cancelled ( ) ( ) Ending balance Weighted-average fair value per share for shares granted during the year* $ $ Shared performance stock awards Beginning balance \x96 Granted Special dividend adjustment \x96 Vested \x96 \x96 Cancelled ( ) ( ) Ending balance Weighted-average fair value per share for shares granted during the year* $ $ * Adjusted for additional awards granted for the $ special dividend. Stock Options. Nonqualified stock options have been granted our directors under our non-employee director stock plans. Nonqualified and incentive stock options have been granted our officers and employees under our employee stock plans. Options granted before generally vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted between and generally vest over four and one-half years and expire seven years from the date grant, while certain options vest either over four and one-half years over seven and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. Options granted after vest over four and one-half years and expire ten years from the date grant. June , , stock options for million shares were vested. PAGE Part Item The weighted average Black-Scholes value options granted under the stock plans during fiscal year and was $ and $ , respectively. stock options were granted fiscal . The fair value each option grant estimated the date grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants: Year Ended June Weighted average expected life years Dividend per share $ $ Volatility % % Risk-free interest rate % % Employee stock options outstanding are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts) Price per Share Shares Range Weighted average Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled Forfeited ( ) \x96 Balance, June , , $ \x96 $ $ Granted \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Stock Option Transfer Program ( ) \x96 Canceled Forfeited ( ) \x96 Balance, June , $ \x96 $ $ Special Dividend Adjustment \x96 Granted \x96 \x96 \x96 Exercised ( ) \x96 Canceled Forfeited ( ) \x96 Balance, June , $ \x96 $ $ For various price ranges, weighted average characteristics outstanding employee stock options June , are follows: ( millions, except per share amounts and years) Outstanding options Exercisable options Range exercise prices Shares Remaining life (years) Weighted average price Shares Weighted average price $ \x96 $ $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ \x96 $ $ June , , million transferred options Morgan remained outstanding and are excluded from the amounts noted employee options outstanding the tables above. See Note . addition, the tables above include the total options outstanding million options outstanding that were granted conjunction with PAGE Part Item corporate acquisitions. These options are included the option totals; however, they are excluded from the exercise price ranges presented. These options had exercise price range $ $ and weighted average exercise price $ . NOTE EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share computed the basis the weighted average number shares common stock plus the effect dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, and shared performance stock awards. The components basic and diluted earnings per share are follows: ( millions, except earnings per share) Year Ended June Net income available for common shareholders ( ) $ , $ , $ , Weighted average outstanding shares common stock ( ) , , , Dilutive effect employee stock options and awards Common stock and common stock equivalents ( ) , , , Earnings per share: Basic ( ) $ $ $ Diluted ( ) $ $ $ For the years ended June , , , and , billion, billion and million shares attributable outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices the stock options were greater than equal the average price the common shares, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the year ended June , , million shared performance stock awards, out the million targeted amount outstanding, have been excluded from the calculation diluted earnings per share because the number shares ultimately issued contingent our performance against metrics established for the performance period, discussed Note \x96 Employee Stock and Savings Plans. NOTE COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES have operating leases for most . and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. Rental expense for operating leases was $ million, $ million, and $ million fiscal years , , and , respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable leases are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Amount $ and thereafter $ , have committed $ million for constructing new buildings. June , , had guaranteed the repayment certain Japanese yen denominated bank loans and related interest and fees Jupiter Telecommunication, Ltd., Japanese cable company. The total amount these guarantees was approximately $ million. Effective December , , the unconditional guarantees were terminated. PAGE Part Item connection with various operating leases, issued residual value guarantees, which provide that not purchase the leased property from the lessor the end the lease term, then are liable the lessor for amount equal the shortage ( any) between the proceeds from the sale the property and agreed value. June , , the maximum amount the residual value guarantees was approximately $ million. believe that proceeds from the sale properties under operating leases would exceed the payment obligation and therefore liability currently exists. provide indemnifications varying scope and size certain customers against claims intellectual property infringement made third parties arising from the use our products. addition, also provide indemnification against credit risk several geographical locations our volume license resellers case the resellers fail collect from the end user. Due the nature the indemnification provided our resellers, can not estimate the fair value, nor determine the total nominal amount the indemnification. evaluate estimated losses for such indemnifications under SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencies , interpreted FIN . consider such factors the degree probability unfavorable outcome and the ability make reasonable estimate the amount loss. date, have not encountered material costs result such obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related such indemnifications our financial statements. Our product warranty accrual reflects management\x92 best estimate our probable liability under its product warranties (primarily relating the Xbox console). determine the warranty accrual based known product failures ( any), historical experience, and other currently available evidence. Our warranty accrual totals $ million June , . There has been significant activity impacting the results operations for any period presented. NOTE CONTINGENCIES Government competition law matters. March , , the European Commission announced decision its competition law investigation Microsoft. The Commission concluded that infringed European competition law refusing provide our competitors with licenses certain protocol technology the Windows server operating systems and including streaming media playback functionality Windows desktop operating systems. The Commission ordered make the relevant licenses our technology available our competitors and develop and make available version the Windows desktop operating system that does not include specified software relating media playback. The decision also imposed fine \x80 million, which resulted charge the third quarter fiscal year \x80 million ($ million). filed appeal the decision the Court First Instance June , . December , , the Court ordered that must comply with the decision pending review appeal and are taking steps ensure are compliance. The hearing date for the appeal expected determined later calendar year . continue contest the conclusion that European competition law was infringed and will defend our position vigorously. The Korean Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) investigating whether have violated Korean competition law including Windows Media Player technologies Windows, including Windows Messenger Windows, distributing Windows Media Services optional component Windows Server. Hearings this issue before the KFTC began July , , continued August , , and may extended into the fall . other ongoing investigations, various foreign governments and several state Attorneys General have requested information from concerning competition, privacy, and security issues. Antitrust, unfair competition, and overcharge class action lawsuits. large number antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits have been filed against various state and federal courts behalf variously defined classes direct and indirect purchasers our operating system and certain software applications products. The federal cases have been consolidated the . District Court for Maryland. These cases allege that competed unfairly and unlawfully monopolized alleged markets for operating systems and certain software applications, and they seek recover alleged overcharges for these products. date, courts have dismissed all claims for damages cases brought against indirect purchasers under federal law and states. Nine those state court decisions have been affirmed appeal. Appeals one those state rulings pending. There was appeal four states. Claims under federal law brought behalf foreign purchasers have been dismissed the . District Court Maryland have all claims brought behalf consumers seeking injunctive relief under federal law. The ruling the injunctive relief and the ruling dismissing the federal claims indirect purchasers are currently appeal the United States Court Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, ruling denying certification certain proposed classes . direct purchasers. Courts eleven states have ruled that indirect PAGE Part Item purchaser cases may proceed class actions, while courts two states have denied class certification. , reached agreement with counsel for the California plaintiffs settle all claims consolidated cases that state. Under the proposed settlement, class members will able obtain vouchers that entitle the class members reimbursed the face value their vouchers for purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware and software. The total value vouchers issued will depend the number class members who make claim and are issued vouchers. Two-thirds the value vouchers unissued unredeemed class members will made available certain schools California the form vouchers that also may redeemed for cash against purchases wide variety platform-neutral computer hardware, software, and related services. Since the beginning , also reached similar agreements settle all claims number other states. The proposed settlements these states are structured similarly the California settlement, except that, among other differences, one-half the value vouchers unissued class members will made available certain schools the relevant states. The maximum value vouchers issued these settlements, including the California settlement, approximately $ billion. The actual costs these settlements will less than that maximum amount, depending the number class members and schools who are issued and redeem vouchers. The settlements Arizona, California, the District Columbia, Florida, Kansas, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Montana, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont and West Virginia have received final court approval. The proposed settlement Nebraska has received preliminary approval the court those states, but still requires final approval. estimate the total cost resolve all these cases will range between $ billion and $ billion, with the actual cost dependent upon many unknown factors such the quantity and mix products for which claims will made, the number eligible class members who ultimately use the vouchers, the nature hardware and software that acquired using the vouchers, and the cost administering the claims process. accordance with SFAS . , Accounting for Contingencie , and FASB Interpretation (FIN) , Reasonable Estimation the Amount Loss , June , , have recorded liability related these claims approximately $ billion, net payments date for administrative expenses and legal fees. Other antitrust litigation and claims. August , , the City and County San Francisco, the City Los Angeles, and Los Angeles, San Mateo, Contra Costa and Santa Clara Counties filed putative class action against San Francisco Superior Court. The action was brought behalf all governmental entities, agencies and political subdivisions the State California who indirectly purchased our operating system word processing and spreadsheet software during the period from February , the date trial the action. The plaintiffs seek treble damages under California\x92 Cartwright Act and disgorgement unlawful profits under its Unfair Competition Act resulting from our alleged combinations restrain trade, deny competition, and monopolize the world markets for operating systems and word processing and spreadsheet applications (and productivity suites including these applications). were served with the complaint August , and removed the case the . District Court for Maryland. Our motion dismiss the complaint was granted its entirety April , with leave file amended complaint alleging claims under the Cartwright Act based conduct within the four-year statute limitation the court ruled applies the plaintiffs\x92 claims. Plaintiffs also may seek appeal the court\x92 decision. December , , RealNetworks, Inc. filed suit against alleging violations federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws. The alleged violations relate streaming media features Windows and related technologies. RealNetworks seeks damages and injunctive relief, including permanent injunction requiring offer version Windows products with streaming media features. deny the allegations and will vigorously defend the action. RealNetworks filed the case federal court San Jose, California. has been consolidated for pretrial purposes with other cases pending the . District Court for Maryland. November , , Novell, Inc. filed complaint the . District Court for Utah asserting antitrust and unfair competition claims against related Novell\x92 ownership WordPerfect and other productivity applications during the period between June and March . June , , the trial court granted our motion dismiss four six claims the complaint. The remaining two claims were not dismissed and litigation has proceeded those claims. are seeking leave appeal the decision not dismiss those claims. addition, have been notified additional antitrust damage claims several competitors and several licensees our products. July , , announced settlement with IBM resolving claims asserted IBM that arose from the circumstances United States . Microsoft and findings fact that identified IBM having been impacted its business practices which the . . District Court ruled against , and claims related IBM\x92 and SmartSuite businesses. Under the agreement, paid IBM $ million and extended $ million credit for IBM\x92 internal deployment our software. IBM released all antitrust claims against based past conduct except for PAGE Part Item claims related its server business which IBM will not sue for least two years. The costs related this settlement were accrued other current liabilities June , . addition the IBM matter, June , , have recorded liability $ million for the foregoing other antitrust lawsuits and claims. While intend vigorously defend those matters, there exists the possibility adverse outcomes which estimate could $ million aggregate beyond recorded amounts. Patent cases. are defendant more than patent infringement cases that are defending vigorously. the case Eolas Technologies, Inc. and University California . Microsoft , filed the . District Court for the Northern District Illinois February , , the plaintiffs alleged infringement the browser functionality Windows. August , , the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $ million damages for infringement from the date the plaintiffs\x92 patent was issued through September . The plaintiffs are seeking equitable accounting for damages from September the present. January , , the trial court entered final judgment $ million, including post-trial interest $ million, and entered injunction against distribution any new infringing products, but stayed execution the judgment and the injunction pending our appeal. appealed and March , the Court Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the decision and vacated the judgment, ruling that the trial court had erred excluding certain previous art evidence and ruling matter law other evidence. The appellate court also reversed the trial court\x92 decision that the inventors had not engaged inequitable conduct failing reveal material previous art while obtaining the patent. October , the . Patent Office initiated Director-ordered -examination the Eolas patent. February , , the Patent Office issued Office Action rejecting the claims the Eolas patent. believe the total cost resolve this case will not material our financial position results operations. The actual costs are dependent upon many unknown factors such the events retrial the plaintiff\x92 claims. Research Corporation Technologies, Inc. . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Arizona December , , the plaintiff has asserted two patents related half-toning, which believes are infringed certain printing functionality allegedly present different versions Windows. Plaintiff seeks unspecified amount damages the form \x93reasonable royalties\x94 Microsoft\x92 Windows products. Microsoft\x92 defense based the plaintiff\x92 inequitable conduct was tried August and , . The remaining issues the case may scheduled for trial the second half calendar year . TVI . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Northern District California May , , the plaintiff alleges infringement the Autoplay feature Windows. The case scheduled for trial the second half . Microsoft . Lucent , filed the . District Court San Diego April , , are seeking declaratory judgment that not infringe any valid patent among number patents Lucent has been asserting against computer manufacturers who sell computers with Microsoft software pre-installed. trial date has been set. Arendi USA, Inc. and Arendi Holding Limited . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the District Rhode Island July , , the plaintiffs alleged infringement one patent certain Smart Tags features Microsoft Office and Office . Following trial September the jury returned verdict for , finding that did not infringe the patents. The plaintiffs have appealed. Amado . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Central District California March , , the plaintiff has accused the link table functionality available Microsoft Access when used with Microsoft Excel. After jury trial, were found infringe one claim the patent and damages were awarded the amount $ million. The judge later found for its defense laches, which reduced the damages award $ million. The court also imposed injunction against further distribution the accused feature part Microsoft Access, but stayed the injunction pending appellate review. have appealed. BTG . Microsoft , filed . District Court for the Northern District California July , , the plaintiff has accused our Windows and Office products infringing several patents. The patents are directed \x93update\x94 technology, active desktop concepts and off-line browsing. trial date has been set. AVG . Microsoft , the plaintiff filed number cases the Eastern District Texas against , our major OEMs, other computer game console makers (Sony and Nintendo), and computer game publishers August , . The case concerns graphics functionality Windows and Xbox. The first case against scheduled for trial January . Adverse outcomes some all the pending patent cases may result significant monetary damages injunctive relief against , adversely affecting distribution our operating system application products. The risks associated with adverse decision may result material settlements. Other. are also subject variety other claims and suits that arise from time time the ordinary course our business. While management currently believes that resolving claims against , individually aggregate, will not have material adverse impact our financial position results operations, these matters are subject PAGE Part Item inherent uncertainties and management\x92 view them may change the future. Were unfavorable final outcome occur, there exists the possibility material adverse impact our financial position and the results operations for the period which the effect becomes reasonably estimable. June , , had accrued liabilities totaling $ billion other current liabilities and $ million other long-term liabilities for all the above matters. NOTE SEGMENT INFORMATION Segment revenue and operating income/(loss) follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Revenue Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions MSN , , , Mobile and Embedded Devices Home and Entertainment , , , Reconciling amounts ( ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , Operating Income/(Loss) Client $ , $ , $ , Server and Tools , , , Information Worker , , , Microsoft Business Solutions ( ) ( ) ( ) MSN ( ) Mobile and Embedded Devices ( ) ( ) ( ) Home and Entertainment ( ) ( ) ( ) Reconciling amounts ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Consolidated $ , $ , $ , SFAS . , Disclosures about Segments Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. This standard requires segmentation based our internal organization and reporting revenue and operating income based upon internal accounting methods. Our financial reporting systems present various data for management run the business, including internal profit and loss statements prepared basis not consistent with . GAAP. The segments are designed allocate resources internally and provide framework determine management responsibility. Operating segments are defined components enterprise about which separate financial information available that evaluated regularly the chief operating decision maker, decision making group, deciding how allocate resources and assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker our Chief Executive Officer. The types products and services provided each segment are summarized below: Client \x96 Windows Professional and Home, Media Center Edition, Tablet Edition, and other standard Windows operating systems. Server and Tools \x96 Server software licenses and client access licenses (CALs) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Exchange Server, and other server products. Also includes developer tools, training, certification, Microsoft Press, Premier and Professional product support services, and Microsoft Consulting Services. PAGE Part Item Information Worker \x96 Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, SharePoint Portal Server CALs, other information worker products including Microsoft LiveMeeting and OneNote, allocation for Server CALs, and professional product support services. Microsoft Business Solutions \x96 Microsoft Great Plains, Microsoft Navision, Microsoft Axapta, Microsoft Solomon, Microsoft CRM, Microsoft Retail Management System, Microsoft Point Sale and other business applications and services including the Microsoft Partner Program. Microsoft Business Solutions also develops Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting and Business Contact Manager for Outlook, which are marketed Information Worker. MSN \x96 Personal communication services, such -mail and instant messaging, and online information offerings, such MSN Search and the MSN portals and channels, and online paid services including MSN Internet Access, MSN Premium Web Services, and MSN Mobile service. Mobile and Embedded Devices \x96 Windows Mobile software, Windows Embedded operating systems, MapPoint, and Windows Automotive. Home and Entertainment \x96 Microsoft Xbox video game console system, games, mice, keyboards, Mac Office, and platform products. Because our integrated business structure, operating costs included one segment may benefit other segments, and therefore these segments are not designed measure operating income loss directly related the products included each segment. Inter-segment cost commissions are estimated management and used compensate charge each segment for such shared costs and incent shared efforts. Management will continually evaluate the alignment product development organizations, sales organizations, and inter-segment commissions for segment reporting purposes, which may result changes segment allocations future periods. Assets are not allocated segments for internal reporting presentations. portion amortization and depreciation included with various other costs overhead allocation each segment and impracticable for separately identify the amount amortization and depreciation segment that included the measure segment profit loss. Reconciling amounts include adjustments conform with . GAAP and corporate-level activity not specifically attributed segment. Significant internal accounting policies that differ from . GAAP relate revenue recognition, income statement classification, quarter end cut off timing, and accelerated amortization for depreciation, stock awards, and performance-based stock awards. addition, certain revenue and expenses are excluded from segments included corporate-level activity including certain legal settlements and accruals for legal contingencies. Significant reconciling items are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June Operating income reconciling amounts: Legal settlements and contingent liabilities $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) Stock-based compensation expense ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Revenue reconciling amounts ( ) Corporate-level expenses ( ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ) Other Total $ ( , ) $ ( , ) $ ( , ) ( ) Corporate-level expenses exclude legal settlements and contingent liabilities, stock-based compensation expense, and revenue reconciling amounts presented separately those line items. Sales Dell and its subsidiaries the aggregate accounted for approximately % total fiscal year and revenue. These sales were made primarily through our OEM and volume licensing channels and were included all operating segments. single customer accounted for more than % revenue . PAGE Part Item Revenue, classified the major geographic areas which operate, follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States ( ) $ , $ , $ , Other countries , , , Total $ , $ , $ , ( ) Includes shipments customers the United States, licensing certain OEMs and multinational organizations, and exports finished goods, primarily Latin America and Canada. Long-lived assets, classified the geographic location the controlling statutory company which that company operates, are follows: ( millions) Year Ended June United States $ , $ , Other countries Total $ , $ , PAGE Part Item QUARTERLY INFORMATION ( millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) Quarter Ended Sep. Dec. Mar. June Total Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , , , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , , ( ) , ( ) , , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Fiscal year Revenue $ , $ , $ , $ , $ , Gross profit , , , , , Net income , ( ) , , ( ) , ( ) , Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the Time Warner settlement and $ billion impairments investments. ( ) Includes stock-based compensation charges totaling $ billion for the employee stock option transfer program. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ billion (pre-tax) related the Sun Microsystems Inc. settlement and fine imposed the European Commission. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the settlement certain litigation with Novell, Inc. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related the Gateway, Inc. and Burst com settlements, Sun Microsystems, Inc., and additional charges related anti-trust and certain other matters. ( ) Includes charges totaling $ million (pre-tax) related IBM and other matters. PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) June , and , and the related consolidated statements income, cash flows, and stockholders\x92 equity for each the three years the period ended June , . These financial statements are the responsibility the Company\x92 management. Our responsibility express opinion these financial statements based our audits. conducted our audits accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free material misstatement. audit includes examining, test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made management, well evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. believe that our audits provide reasonable basis for our opinion. our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, all material respects, the financial position Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries June , and , and the results their operations and their cash flows for each the three years the period ended June , , conformity with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission, and our report dated August , expressed unqualified opinion management\x92 assessment the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting and unqualified opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part Item , ', 'item 9. ': 'CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not applicable. ', 'item 9a. ': 'CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant Exchange Act Rule 13a- ( ) the end the period covered this report. Based that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were changes our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June , that have materially affected, are reasonably likely materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. REPORT MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our management responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Internal control over financial reporting process provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability our financial reporting for external purposes accordance with accounting principles generally accepted the United States America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary for preparation our financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures company assets are made accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use disposition company assets that could have material effect our financial statements would prevented detected timely basis. Because its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting not intended provide absolute assurance that misstatement our financial statements would prevented detected. Management conducted evaluation the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting based the framework Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Based this evaluation, management concluded that the company\x92 internal control over financial reporting was effective June , . Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited this assessment our internal control over financial reporting; their report included Item . PAGE Part Item REPORT INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM the Board Directors and Stockholders Microsoft Corporation: have audited management\x92 assessment, included the accompanying Report Management Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the \x93Company\x94) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. The Company\x92 management responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment the effectiveness internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility express opinion management\x92 assessment and opinion the effectiveness the Company\x92 internal control over financial reporting based our audit. conducted our audit accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that plan and perform the audit obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained all material respects. Our audit included obtaining understanding internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management\x92 assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness internal control, and performing such other procedures considered necessary the circumstances. believe that our audit provides reasonable basis for our opinions. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting process designed , under the supervision , the company\x92 principal executive and principal financial officers, persons performing similar functions, and effected the company\x92 board directors, management, and other personnel provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability financial reporting and the preparation financial statements for external purposes accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. company\x92 internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that ( ) pertain the maintenance records that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions the assets the company; ( ) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded necessary permit preparation financial statements accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures the company are being made only accordance with authorizations management and directors the company; and ( ) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention timely detection unauthorized acquisition, use, disposition the company\x92 assets that could have material effect the financial statements. Because the inherent limitations internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility collusion improper management override controls, material misstatements due error fraud may not prevented detected timely basis. Also, projections any evaluation the effectiveness the internal control over financial reporting future periods are subject the risk that the controls may become inadequate because changes conditions, that the degree compliance with the policies procedures may deteriorate. our opinion, management\x92 assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting June , , fairly stated, all material respects, based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. Also our opinion, the Company maintained, all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting June , , based the criteria established Internal Control \x96 Integrated Framework issued the Committee Sponsoring Organizations the Treadway Commission. have also audited, accordance with the standards the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and for the year ended June , the Company and our report dated August , expressed unqualified opinion those financial statements. / / ELOITTE & OUCHE LLP Seattle, Washington August , PAGE Part , III Item , , , , , ', 'item 9b. ': 'OTHER INFORMATION Not applicable. PART III ', 'item 9c. ': 'Not this - Filing version.', 'item 10. ': 'DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS THE REGISTRANT list our executive officers and biographical information appears Part , Item this report. Information about our Directors may found under the caption \x93Election Directors and Management Information\x94 our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting Shareholders held November , (the \x93Proxy Statement\x94). That information incorporated herein reference. The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption \x93Section ( ) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance\x94 incorporated herein reference. have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code Professional Conduct (the \x93finance code ethics\x94), code ethics that applies our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, and other finance organization employees. The finance code ethics publicly available our website www microsoft com msft. make any substantive amendments the finance code ethics grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from provision the code our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller, will disclose the nature such amendment waiver that website report Form - . ', 'item 11. ': 'EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Information Regarding Executive Officer Compensation\x94 and \x93Information About the Board and its Committees \x96 Director Compensation\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 12. ': 'SECURITY OWNERSHIP CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The information the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions \x93Equity Compensation Plan Information\x94 and \x93Information Regarding Beneficial Ownership Principal Shareholders, Directors, and Management\x94 incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 13. ': 'CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS The information set forth under the captions \x93Certain Relationships and Related Transactions\x94 the Proxy Statement incorporated herein reference. ', 'item 14. ': 'PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Information concerning principal accountant fees and services appears the Proxy Statement under the heading \x93Fees Billed Deloitte & Touche LLP\x94 and incorporated herein reference. PAGE Part Item PART ', 'item 15. ': 'EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ( ) Financial Statements and Schedules The financial statements are set forth under Item this Annual Report Form - . Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, the information otherwise included. ( ) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Number Description Amended and Restated Articles Incorporation Microsoft Corporation ( ) Bylaws Microsoft Corporation ( ) . Call Option Transaction Confirmation dated December , between Microsoft Corporation and JPMorgan Chase Bank ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ) * Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Gain and Bonus Deferral Program ( ) * Form Stock Award Agreement ( ) * Form Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors ( ) * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the January , June , performance period ( ) * Form Shared Performance Stock Award Agreement for the July , June , performance period ( ) * Form Stock Option Agreement ( ) * Form Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee (formerly with First Interstate Bank Washington trustee) ( ) Trust Agreement dated June , between Microsoft Corporation and BNY Western Trust Company trustee ( ) Form Indemnification Agreement ( ) . Subsidiaries Registrant Consent Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Executive Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Certifications Chief Financial Officer Pursuant Section the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended March , . ( ) Incorporated reference Quarterly Report Form - for the Quarterly Period Ended December , . ( ) Incorporated reference Current Report Form - dated November , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . ( ) Incorporated reference Annual Report Form - for the Fiscal Year Ended June , . * Indicates management contract compensatory plan arrangement. PAGE ', 'item 16. ': 'Not this - Filing version.'}